The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1015,
June 10, 1899, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll
have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using
this ebook.



Title: The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1015, June 10, 1899

Author: Various

Release Date: October 19, 2019 [EBook #60519]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GIRL'S OWN PAPER ***




Produced by Susan Skinner, Chris Curnow, Pamela Patten and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: THE GIRL’S OWN PAPER

VOL. XX.—NO. 1015.]      JUNE 10, 1899.      [PRICE ONE PENNY.]




SHEILA’S COUSIN EFFIE.

A STORY FOR GIRLS.

BY EVELYN EVERETT-GREEN, Author of “Greyfriars,” “Half-a-dozen
Sisters,” etc.

[Illustration: “THE MAN GRINNED AND SHOOK HIS HEAD.”]

_All rights reserved._]


CHAPTER X.

AFTER-EFFECTS AND CYRIL.

The whole place was in a tumult. The streets were thronged. Passionate
inquiries and greetings were passing from mouth to mouth. The chief
thing was to get the girls under cover as quickly as possible, out of
the hubbub all round the municipal buildings. The Bensons threw open
their house; the Cossarts did the same. Sheila soon found herself,
together with May Lawrence and Miss Adene, in her aunt’s drawing-room,
where Raby and Ray had preceded them, and they were received with the
warmest effusion by the company gathered there, for in the confusion
and alarm nobody was confidently reckoned to be safe till he or she had
been actually seen.

North came in a few minutes later.

“Effie has been taken straight home in our uncle’s carriage. We could
not get at you, Sheila, so Oscar is to take you back later on, when
the excitement is abated. Are the girls there? That’s all right. Yes,
mater, I am safe enough; but don’t keep me. There are frantic mothers
hunting up their children still. I believe no lives have been lost; but
I must go and do what I can to reassure them. We must find the waifs
and strays, and get them to their right owners!”

He kissed his mother and swung himself off; and then a little more
quiet fell upon the room, whilst those who had been eye-witnesses of
the catastrophe were eagerly called upon to relate their experiences.

Mrs. Cossart had not been at the hall that afternoon, being fatigued
by her exertions the two previous days; and her husband, having let
all the boys off, had had to keep to the office himself, and only came
hurrying home in alarm and consternation when the news reached him that
the Town Hall was on fire!

Sheila, listening breathlessly whilst some ladies who had been in the
lower hall related their experiences, thought that they had escaped
the worst of the terror by being in the upper room. Several of the
children’s frocks had caught fire, and it seemed at one time as though
the whole place and the hapless people would be in a blaze; but there
were plenty of exits, and the police at the doors kept their heads, and
passed the children out with great rapidity; and the firemen were on
the scene almost at once. The flames got firm hold upon the temporary
structures of stalls and so forth, but the building itself never took
fire, being of solid stone.

There had been fearful screams, and wild panic; but on the whole
the people had behaved exceedingly well, and though there was some
inevitable crushing, there had been no actual block, and it was
believed that no lives had been lost.

“The only man I saw who behaved really badly,” said one lady, who had
evidently been instrumental in saving several children, and whose dress
was much burnt in consequence, “was one of the actors from upstairs,
who came flying down, and pushed and fought his way out without heeding
anything or anybody. He overturned several little children, and one of
them would have been trampled to death had not a policeman snatched it
up. I was really glad to see another man—a fireman, I believe—give the
young man a sound cuff on the side of his head that sent him reeling
out into the open. I won’t say that nobody else hustled or pushed—at
a time like that one cannot observe everything—but I saw no one else
disgrace his manhood in that way.”

“Shameful,” said Mr. Tom sternly. “One of the actors, you say. One
ought to be able to find out who it was.”

“He had on a white satin suit—that made him the more conspicuous. I
suppose he had completely lost his head. One must not be too hard on
people who do that; but one rather hates to see it.”

At that moment the door opened and Cyril came airily in. His cheek was
very red, as though from some sort of injury, and his mother sprang
forward exclaiming—

“Oh, my boy, did you get burned?”

Cyril put up his hand and laughed.

“Did I? I did not notice. One has not time to think of that sort of
thing at such a time. Besides, I was out of it sooner than many. I was
afraid the people in the council room, which was the theatre, would be
cut off from help. I made a dash for it to get the fire-escape brought
round to them at the windows. One could not tell at the outset how
fast the fire would spread. I was horribly afraid they would all be
suffocated up there, whilst the energies of the rescuers were directed
to the larger hall. I’m afraid I was rather unceremonious in my flight,
but, at any rate, I accomplished my purpose, and that’s the great
thing.”

Sheila and May exchanged quick glances. Was that really Cyril’s motive
in making that wild bolt? Certainly it had not been the impression
produced upon those who had heard and seen him at the time. His father
looked at him steadily, and said—

“I hope you were not the man in white satin, who overturned little
children and pushed aside women and girls in his determination to get
out. Whatever your motive, nothing could excuse conduct like that.”

Cyril’s face flushed, but he answered airily—

“In such confusion I think nobody can quite say what it is that
happens. I am quite willing to bear any odium my townspeople like to
put upon me, so long as I know that I was in time to accomplish my
errand, and send the escape to the windows where my sisters and cousins
were waiting.”

Nobody spoke for a few minutes, and then Raby remarked slowly—

“It was Lionel Benson who went for the escape and brought it.”

“Yes; Lionel came up in time to escort it. I was hardly in the costume
for that part of the business. Well, he is quite welcome to the honour
and glory. So long as you are all safe, I care for nothing else.”

A carriage presently drew up at the door, and one of May’s brothers
came in, saying that the streets were getting quiet, and she could
drive back safely now. Miss Adene and May were now the only guests left
in the Cossarts’ drawing-room, and they bade a very warm adieu to their
entertainers, drawn together by that common bond of sympathy which an
experience such as had just been passed through quickly establishes.

“You must come and see us very soon,” said May to Sheila, “and tell us
how Effie is. I’m afraid she will feel the shock.”

Sheila kissed her and Miss Adene affectionately, promised to ride over
as soon as she could, and soon afterwards started off on foot with
Oscar for Cossart Place, he having leave from his uncle to remain there
over the Sunday if he were invited.

“For I don’t think any of you will be much good to-morrow,” said he,
with a hand on Oscar’s shoulder. “It has been a bit of a shock to us
all. Take a day off, and come back like a giant refreshed on Monday.
Let us have word of poor little Effie. I hope it won’t throw her into a
fever.”

Brother and sister went off contentedly together, and they could not
but take a look into the open space round the Town Hall before starting
out into the country.

The crowd was still large about it, but it was known now that no
serious harm had been done to the building, and that there had been
no loss of life, though a few persons had been injured, and many were
suffering from the effects of fright and burns.

As they passed by the fire-station they saw the grimy face of the man
who had come with the escape, and he, recognising them, put up his hand
in salute, and said—

“The young lady none the worse, sir?”

“Not a bit,” answered Sheila, answering for herself; “you came and took
us away before there was any real danger. Who was it told you about us
up at the windows?”

“Mr. Benson, miss—Mr. Lionel, I should say. We might not have known
about it but for him. We thought as everybody had come down and were
getting out by the doors.”

“Was it not Mr. Cyril Cossart who first gave the alarm?”

The man grinned and shook his head.

“Bless you, miss, that young gentleman lost his head quite. They say
he fought his way out like a madman, and lots of people saw him flying
home in his white finery like a cat with a cinder on its back! No,
no, missie, it was Mr. Lionel as brought us news of the folks at the
windows. We musn’t be too hard on the people as loses their heads
at such a time; but we likes better to see them behaving themselves
rational like. It was fine the way the ladies in the hall behaved! They
thought nothing of themselves, but all was for getting the little ’uns
safely out. If they’d gone and lost their heads and made a rush, it
would have been a terrible nasty business, and some of ’em had bound to
be killed; but what with them behind and the police at the doors, it
all went off beautiful, one might say.”

They talked a little more to the man and then went their way.

Sheila’s face wore an indignant flush. She said in a low voice to Oscar—

“I think I could have forgiven him the panic; he mightn’t be able
to help that. But to tell that mean lie afterwards! Oh, I can never
respect him again.”

Oscar was silent a few minutes, and then said slowly—

“I think, Sheila, that we had better try to forget it, and not to say
anything to anybody else about it. It hurts people’s feelings if their
next-of-kin are proved unworthy, and Cyril has been thought so much of
at home. Perhaps in the confusion nobody will think much more about
it. You know it is often the nearest relatives who do not hear the
exact truth about a bit of a failure like that. We won’t be the people
to talk of it. Our uncle and aunt have been very kind to us. We must
remember that, and I think it would be a terrible trouble to Aunt Tom
if she were to think——”

Oscar did not complete his sentence, and Sheila said quickly—

“Isn’t it better for them to know the truth?”

“But perhaps it isn’t really the truth,” said Oscar, “I am not sure
that a man should be judged for what he does in a time of panic——”

“No, but the lie afterwards——”

“Yes, that was bad; but think of the temptation to make some excuse for
himself! Do you know I can fancy being tempted to it. He had always
been thought so much of at home and in the town. To be branded as a
coward! It would be almost unendurable.”

Sheila was silent; she felt that Cyril deserved the brand, and her
youthful clearness of judgment made compromise difficult.

“Well, I won’t say anything if you don’t think I ought, but I can never
like Cyril again. I shall always despise him.”

“We must not despise one another more than we can help,” said Oscar
soberly. “You know, Sheila, we have so many faults ourselves. We ought
to try and think of that.”

Sheila was accustomed to defer to Oscar’s judgment, and she was kindly
by nature, though frank and candid. She did not see much good in
hushing things up, but she promised not to speak herself of what the
fireman had said. She rather hoped it would come out to some of the
rest; she did not think that North would be easily deceived. He had
been very indignant about Cyril’s conduct.

But upon reaching home the current of her thoughts was soon turned in
another direction.

Effie was ill!

There was no gainsaying it this time. Fanciful she might be, and
others for her, but the shock and the fright of the fire had been too
much for her. She had lapsed into unconsciousness during the drive home
with her father, and now, though put to bed and with the doctor in
attendance, she had shown no signs of animation.

Sheila was not permitted to go up to the room, and glad was she that
Oscar was with her. Suppose Effie should die! The thought sent the
blood ebbing from Sheila’s cheeks.

“Oh, I wish I had cared more for her, I wish I had not been so selfish
so often. Oscar, I begin to be afraid I am selfish. I do think first
what I like myself, and then I try to invent reasons for doing it. I
have so often left Effie alone and gone out riding, or doing things
that amused me. Oh, I wish I hadn’t now!”

“I’m afraid we’re all rather like that,” answered Oscar. “I know I am.
Perhaps things like this—that fire, and now Effie—are sent to pull us
up and make us think. It came over me when for a moment one wondered
whether there would be any getting out, how little one had done with
one’s life. Perhaps it will help us to think more, Sheila. I’m sure I
need it.”

“If you do, I do much more,” said Sheila; and they sat clinging
together in the dusk, till at last the sound of steps and voices on the
staircase roused them, and Sheila started up crying—

“Oh, there is the doctor. Let us go and ask him.”

He was coming down with Mrs. Cossart; she was looking greatly upset,
but his face wore a look of grave cheerfulness, and they heard him say—

“Yes, she will want care—great care—for some time to come, but there
is nothing to agitate yourself about—no probability of a return of that
condition. Let her be kept perfectly quiet, and she will sleep right
away now. What I have given her will ensure that. I will look in first
thing to-morrow morning.”

Sheila stood trembling in the hall below, and hearing words which
proved to her that Effie was better, she suddenly burst into tears and
sobbed uncontrollably.

“Tut, tut,” said the doctor kindly, “what is the matter here?”

“She was upset to hear about her cousin’s illness,” said Oscar,
answering for her. “She was in the Town Hall too, and I think we all
got a fright, and coming home to hear of illness had upset her quite.”

“Send her to bed, send her to bed,” said the doctor kindly, “and keep
her there till I come to-morrow. I can’t stay now. I am wanted in all
directions at once. It has been a bad bit of business, but thank God
things are wonderfully better than we might have looked to see.”

And the doctor went off in haste, being wanted, as he said, in half
a dozen different directions, whilst Mrs. Cossart took Sheila in her
arms, in an almost motherly embrace, for her tears over Effie’s illness
had touched a chord of sympathy.

“Is dear Effie better?” sobbed Sheila.

“Yes, just a little; she’s come to herself, but he would not let her
talk, and gave her an injection of morphia which sent her off to sleep.
Perhaps she will wake up much better. And now, my dear, you must come
to bed and tell me all about it, for I have not been able to hear
anything, and I am all in a tremble still to think of you all—and my
precious child—in the midst of such terrible danger.”

“And I don’t feel as though I could do anything,” cried Sheila, “till I
have thanked God for saving us and for making Effie better.”

(_To be continued._)




VARIETIES.


THE DISHONEST SERVANT.

A well-known firm in Edinburgh consisted of two partners, and
to provide against dangers from fire and burglary it was made a
stipulation in the deed of partnership that one or other of the heads
of the firm should always sleep on the premises.

In the course of years this became rather an irksome restriction on
their liberty, and in order to free themselves from it they agreed
to take into partnership their manager, an old servant of the house,
on condition that he should occupy the bedroom and so fulfil the
requirements of the deed.

The old servant was naturally very much moved by this recognition of
his services, but pleaded that he had not the necessary capital to
qualify him for partnership. As to that it was only £500 that was
required, and that the firm had decided to give him.

And so the matter was settled. The trusty servant became a partner and
took possession of the room, and in it he was found dead next morning,
having committed suicide.

He left behind him a letter in which he explained that all those years
during which he had been so trusted by his employers, he had been
robbing them, and their great kindness had so filled him with remorse
that he could not live under it.


THE POWER OF MUSIC.

The late Dean Stanley was very fond of Jenny Lind, but when she stayed
at his father’s palace at Norwich, he always left the room when she
sang.

One evening Jenny Lind had been singing Handel’s “I know that my
Redeemer liveth.” Stanley, as usual, had left the room, but he came
back after the music was over, and went shyly up to the great singer.

“You know,” he said, “I dislike music. I don’t know what people mean in
admiring it. I am very stupid, tone-deaf, as others are colour-blind.
But,” he added, with some warmth, “to-night, when from a distance I
heard you singing that song, I had an inkling of what people mean by
music. Something came over me which I had never felt before; or, yes, I
have felt it once before in my life.”

Jenny Lind was all attention.

“Some years ago,” he continued, “I was at Vienna, and one evening there
was a tattoo before the palace performed by four hundred drummers. I
felt shaken, and to-night while listening to your singing, the same
feeling came over me. I felt deeply moved.”

“Dear man,” Jenny Lind used to say, when she told this story, “I know
he meant well, and a more honest compliment I never received in all my
life.”


BAD TEMPER.

    “Of all bad things by which mankind are cursed
    Their own bad temper surely is the worst.”

            _Cumberland._


ANSWER TO DOUBLE ACROSTIC I. (p. 364).

        1.  O   a s i   S
        2.  B    a l    A
        3.  E  lectri   C
        4.  D  u r b a  R
        5.  I lluminat  I (a)
        6.  E  thelwol  F (b)
        7.  N   a n c   I (c)
        8.  C   ambri   C (d)
        9.  E uphrosyn  E (e)
    Obedience.        Sacrifice.

(a) A secret society founded in 1776 by Adam Weishaupt at Ingolstadt,
Bavaria, for mutual assistance in attaining higher morality and virtue.
It was suppressed by the Bavarian Government in 1784.

(b) The son of Egbert, and father of Alfred the Great.

(c) Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, besieged Nanci in 1476; but
he was defeated and killed.

(d) So called from being made first at Cambray.

(e) One of the three Graces, or Charities.




BOOKS BEFORE TRAVEL.

BY DORA DE BLAQUIÈRE.


PART I.

And even as I write this heading I feel my heart failing me somewhat.
First the largeness of the subject before me is a cause of misgiving
and next the thought of the many differing minds and impressions of
the people who travel nowadays, and who, most of them, are of the
generation of globe-trotters. These care more about covering the
surface of the earth with their tracks, and are not in the least degree
anxious about the culture that may be acquired in travel, and the
nearly dormant condition of the intellect carried about with them in
their peregrinations. Others who travel are eager to see, but have had
in their past life neither the time nor the means to educate themselves
for enjoyment; or they are too young to have had the opportunity to do
so. We all meet with examples of these classes on our own travels, and
there are few of us who have not, at some time, had cause to exclaim,
“Good gracious! what on earth did these people come abroad for?” so
little interest do they find or show in the beauties of nature or art
which surround them. They are far more interested in their meals, the
bills at the hotels, and the extortions of the shops, than in the
finest pictures by Guido, or the loveliest and grandest view from a
mountain-side.

But even while I write, this I know, that the earnest study of years
and the reading of many books would hardly suffice to the knowing of
it all; and we often have to be content with the careful reading of
Baedeker or Murray, and the use of our eyes; and reserve the reading-up
of the subject until we have reached home once more. Even then, we
often do not know what to get in the way of reading, unless we have
some direction to aid us. It is to help those who have time before
starting, and those who desire to read up, as I have said, afterwards,
that these articles are written, and if there be some shortcomings,
some books left out, or others inserted that should not have been put
in, it must be remembered that my views of what I personally want to
prepare myself for a journey may not be your views; and that everyone
is not interested in a special object. Therefore the list must be
comprehensive, so as to take in all comers.

It always seems to me a good plan to start with the history of the
country to which your steps are turned, because the chief interest of
every land must naturally be derived from its past, from the people who
made it what it is, and who lived in its buildings, on its lands, and
worshipped in its temples. If the country in which we travel be our own
England, we generally have learnt enough of its history to make the
names of the actors in it household words; and the local histories have
been carefully collected for us by the many archæological societies in
all parts of England. So that we may, if we like, know all particulars
of the styles of living, and the people, and manners of the past
centuries. In England especially, men who lived in it made the interest
of the land they lived in, and the same is true of Scotland. But in
Ireland it was different, and there the land is the chief point of
interest, and the interest is with legend more than with real people
and things. If the Green Isle had only been fortunate enough to have a
wizard-like Walter Scott to touch the scenery, and make it alive with
people, what a change it would have worked for her to-day!

For a history of England we cannot do better than select Green’s
_History of the English People_, which is not only history, but
history written in a delightsome manner, and quite long enough to be
interesting and concise enough not to fatigue the reader of any age.
But if time be not an object to you, take Miss Strickland’s histories
and read them through, every one of them, even including those of the
_Bachelor Kings_. It may be the fashion to think her gossipy, but her
gossip is worth anything in making you feel that the people of whom you
read really lived, breathed, and walked the earth. Scott, Wordsworth,
and Tennyson, Shakespeare, and Ossian; and in Ireland both Lever and
Lover should bear you company, while the reminiscences of Dean Ramsay
and Wilson will make you feel Edinburgh doubly delightful. In the far
north, William Black has touched Thule and the Hebrides with the pen of
romance; and Kingsley and Blackmore have done the same in the south,
with _Westward Ho!_ and _Lorna Doone_. And in London we walk with
Thackeray and Dickens, on every side, from Piccadilly and Clubland to
Lincoln’s Inn Fields and Fleet Street.

Beside the romancer we must also read Freeman’s _English Towns and
Districts_ and Fergusson’s _Architecture_, George Barrow’s _Wild
Wales_, King’s _Handbook of the Cathedrals_, and Cassell’s _Old and New
London_. Alfred Rimmer’s book on the _Ancient Streets and Homesteads
of England_ is most helpful, and I will end by remarking that you had
better begin Ruskin, with, I think, the Elements of Drawing and the
_Lectures on Art_.

In France we are very well off for books in all languages; but in the
way of history, Guizot’s is rather a long business, and any shorter
history which is available is less tiring, if you be not a rapid
reader. Viollet le Duc will be a great delight to you, I am sure, and
Hare’s _Walks in Paris_ and _Ways near Paris_, and Eastlake’s _Notes on
the Louvre_, with a good guide, should be enough for the capital. In
the way of romance, you have Victor Hugo’s _Hunchback of Notre Dame_.
Miss M. B. Edwards’ _France of To-day_, _A Year in Western France_, and
_Holidays in Eastern France_ are charming books, and so are Hamerton’s
_Round my House_, _Modern Frenchmen_, and _A Summer Voyage on the
Saône_. Miss Pardoe’s books on the Court of France are also well worth
reading for the historical side of life.

Switzerland I have always thought most resembles England, in the
interest of its history, and in the character of its people. In many
ways it is the model country of Europe, for the Swiss are ever open to
change and improvement, and to trying experiments in all the social
walks of life into which many other greater nations would shrink from
embarking. A book recently published on _Social Switzerland_ gives a
view of their charitable and other institutions, and shows this very
clearly, and it is worth reading if you be interested in that side of
the country. General Meredith Reade’s two great volumes of _Vaud and
Berne_, deal entirely with the historical, descriptive, and family side
of the country, and are very interesting. Foreigners have done much to
make Switzerland delightful, and especially the English, for have we
not that delightful _Playground of Europe_ by Leslie Stephens, and
J. A. Symonds’ _Swiss Highlands_, _Tyndall’s Glaciers_ and _Whymper’s
Alps_, to say nothing of a long series of most excellent guide-books,
and histories, and the finest of poetry, beginning with Coleridge’s
_Hymn to Mont Blanc_, and Byron’s _Prisoner of Chillon_.

There seems to be hardly a foot of this most delightful country that
is without its interest, and its literature; and if we read French and
German it is well worth the trouble to read Vinet, the philosopher and
religious writer, and Amiel’s Diary, the saddest and most beautiful of
records.

If you are interested in the flowers of the mountains, you have a
delightful book by W. Robinson, _Alpine Flowers_; and _The Alps in
Winter_ are written of by Mrs. Main (Mrs. Fred Burnaby), and the
many books on Davos Platz, and the Engadine, may all be found in any
catalogue, if health be in question. If you were interested in geology,
glaciers, and botany, you can study them with ease in Switzerland, as
well as Lancastrian dwellings, and the last methods in tree-culture.
As for schools, they abound, and the Swiss education is the best in
the world, in its thoroughness and complete grounding in all subjects.
Lately, too, it has been found worth while to study the Swiss army, and
its manœuvres which take place every year in the month of September.

One of the European countries round which both history and literature
have been making and growing is Holland; and for so small a country
the amount of both is quite marvellous. It is all so interesting too,
and most of it in our own tongue, so that we need not be professors in
Dutch. The most delightful of all histories have been written for us by
American hands, and no library is complete without Motley’s two great
Dutch works, _The Rise of the Dutch Republic_ and the _History of the
United Netherlands_. The great Italian writer, Edmondo de Amicis, has
written two books on Holland—_Holland_, and _Holland and its People_;
and we have the charming volume on the _Dead Cities of the Zuyder Zee_,
H. Taine’s _Low Countries_, and _Holland and Germany_, by J. P. Mahaffy
and J. E. Rogers. In the “Story of the Nations” Series there is an
excellent volume by J. E. T. Rogers, and there are several delightful
tales published lately, with the Low Countries for a background. And
we have made acquaintance with Maarten Maartens, the author of stories
that are Dutch in their characters and surroundings.

You must bear in mind that the Netherlands means Holland and Belgium.
For so small a portion of the earth, the history of Holland is most
interesting; and we must remember that she was once the mistress of
the seas. There is a popular history of the _Great Dutch Admirals_,
by Jacob de Liefde, and he has also written _Beggars, Founders of
the Dutch Republic_. Prescott’s work of _Philip II. of Spain_ covers
much the same ground as Motley’s _Rise of the Dutch Republic_, though
from the point of view of Spain. In this connection, W. C. Robinson’s
_The Revolt of the Netherlands_ may be read. Holland claims to be
the birthplace of printing, and advances the claims of Haarlem, in
opposition to Mentz, and the record of the Elzevir presses at Leyden,
Amsterdam, and the Hague is a very famous one. Lord Ronald Gower has
written a _Pocket Guide to the Art Galleries of Belgium and Holland_,
containing both the public and private galleries; and Kate Thompson has
contributed a _Handbook to the Picture Galleries of Europe_, while
there are several very excellent guide-books in the ordinary way.

Now that Norway is so much visited, it would not be well to leave it
out of the list of places to be seen, and read up before visiting. I
think the most charming book I have ever read about it is Mrs. Stone’s
_Norway in June_, which is quite as delightful as her _Tenerife, and
its Six Satellites_. _Round about Norway_, by Charles W. Wood, is
another pleasant volume; and Professor Boyesen’s _History of Norway_ is
one of the best-written of histories.

There are several best books on Sweden. _The Land of the Midnight
Sun_, by Du Chaillu, and _Under Northern Skies_, by Charles W. Wood,
are concerned with both countries; and in the way of romance, we have
Frederica Bremer’s works, which are full of national colour. Paul du
Chaillu has also written a delightful book called, _The Viking Age_,
in two volumes, illustrated. The _Story of Norway_ has been written
also by Mrs. Arthur Sedgwick. In the way of Historical Biographies,
there are many. Charles XII., Gustavus Vasa, Gustavus Adolphus, and the
Thirty Years War; with that wonderful woman, Queen Christina, and Queen
Caroline Matilda, who was the sister of George III.

The early history of Denmark is of course comprised in the history
of Scandinavia generally; and the same may be said of Iceland and
Greenland. An excellent Handbook of Runic Remains and Monuments, both
in England and Scandinavia, has been written by Professor George
Stephens, and these you should know something about in reference to
both countries. The Danish novel _Afraja_, and Björnstjerne Björnson’s
_Stories and Norse Tales_ are well worth reading. Mrs. Alec. Tweedie
has written _A Girl’s Ride in Iceland_, and a pleasant book about
Finland. And there is the _Ultima Thule_ of Sir Richard Burton, and
_The Story of Iceland_, by Letitia MacColl. _The Land of the North
Wind_, by E. Rae, and _Under the Rays of the Aurora Borealis_ is a book
written by a Dane, and translated. One of the most delightful books I
ever read of, one of which a new edition was issued in 1887, is that
entitled _Letters from High Latitudes_, by the Earl (now Marquis) of
Dufferin; and there is a charming book by Baring Gould, on _Iceland,
its Sagas and Scenes_. Iceland is a country which is more and more
visited every year; but there are no more recent books than those I
have mentioned.

We are so near to Russia that it seems foolish to pass it by, though
I feel it is a difficult country to deal with. The history of Russia
is dealt with in the “Story of the Nations” Series. Mr. A. J. C. Hare
has given us _Studies in Russia_, and the R.T.S. a charming _Russian
Pictures drawn by Pen and Pencil_. Mr. W. S. Ralston’s _Songs of the
Russian Peasantry_ contains an excellent account of the social life of
Russia. In the way of poetry, the Rev. T. C. Wilson has translated for
us _Russian Lyrics into English Verse_, which gives specimens of all
the best recent poets, and there are translations of the works by most
of the Russian novelists, as well as of Tolstoi’s books. But I do not
feel inclined to advise you to enter on this troubled sea of thought.
As a mere traveller you will not need to do so. Turner’s _Studies in
Russian Literature_, and his _Lectures on Modern Novelists of Russia_,
are quite enough for you, I fancy. The latter were delivered at the
Taylor Institute, Oxford, and are pleasant and instructive, both. An
_Art Tour to the Northern Capitals of Europe_, by Atkinson, includes
those of St. Petersburg, Moscow and Kiel.

In Germany the poets are our best travelling companions. I remember
Nuremberg best through the medium of Longfellow, and its history
through the historical tales of Mühlbach, Auerbach, and Marlitt. The
Baroness Tautpheous, the Howitts, and even Hans Christian Andersen,
and Grimm, have all, too, lent a magic to the land. The literature
that has arisen with Wagner and Bayreuth, for a centre, is very wide,
and begins with the _Arthurian Legends_ and the _Nibelungen-Lied_. Of
the first you will have some knowledge from our own Tennyson and the
_Idylls of the King_, even if you do not go as far as the _Mabinogion_,
which was edited and translated by Lady Charlotte Guest, of which there
is an abridged edition. We have a translation of the _Nibelungen-Lied_
by W. N. Lettsom, and another by A. G. Foster-Barham, in the “Great
Musicians” Series. _Wagner_ is written by Dr. F. Hueffer, who has also
written _Wagner and the Music of the Future_. There is a volume to be
obtained at Bayreuth of all the operas given there, which you will
most likely procure, if you should be led there any August to assist at
the Wagner festival.

For Austria we have several delightful fellow-travellers. Amelia B.
Edwards, in _Untrodden Peaks and Unfrequented Valleys_, deals with
the Dolomite region; a more recent book is Robertson’s _Through the
Dolomites_; and there are two books by W. A. Grohman on _Tyrol
and the Tyrolese_, and _Gaddings with a Primitive People_. Victor
Tissot’s _Unknown Hungary_ has been translated from the French, and
the little-known _Dalmatia_ has been dealt with by Mr. T. G. Jackson.
C. W. Wood has written _In the Black Forest_. There are several modern
books on Bismarck and his master, the Emperor William I., and also
on Imperial Germany, and you should choose the most recent of these.
There is an illustrated book, by K. Stieler, called the _Rhine from its
Source to the Sea_, which has been translated and is very interesting.
As a general thing, the guide-books are so many and so various, dealing
with health, baths and spas, and the various artists, musicians,
battle-fields, and seats of learning, that unless you were looking up
any special subject, they will give all the information you require for
travelling in the Fatherland.

In the way of extended literature, you may read, if you like, Helen
Zimmern’s _Half-hours with Foreign Novelists_, and in the way of
distant travels there is, to me, the ever-fascinating Ida Pfeiffer,
that wonderful German woman, whose wanderings were worldwide, and the
contents of whose purse was microscopic at all times. Mrs. Bird, Miss
Gordon Cumming, Lady Brassey, Miss Kingsley, and that delightful Miss
Gates, who is quite the equal of Madame Pfeiffer in her fearless and
adventurous spirit, are all worth reading. James Gilmore, as a writer
and traveller, is so delightful that one feels the deepest regret at
his early death. Mr. and Mrs. Pennell are always excellent companions,
whether they travel to the Hebrides or take a _Sentimental Journey
through France_; or one nearer home, _On the Stream of Pleasure; The
Thames from Oxford to London_, or _Play in Provence_. They are the
pioneers in cycling, for the tourist, and have steadily ridden from
the days of the tricycle, till it has been eclipsed by a more rapid
machine.




A QUIVER OF QUOTATIONS.


“Let a girl grow as a tree grows.”—_Mrs. Willard._

“She gave me eyes, she gave me ears.”—_Wordsworth._

“Education is but another term for preparation for eternity.”—_Sewell._

“By dint of frequently asserting that a man is a fool, we make him
so.”—_Pascal._

“To assert a child is indifferent to its parents is not the way to make
it affectionate.”—_Guyau._

“Our children should be brought up, from the first, with this magnet,
‘Ye are not your own.’”—_Mason._

“All education should be directed to this end, viz., to convince a
child that he is capable of good and incapable of evil.”

“The art of managing the young consists, before everything else, in
assuming them to be as good as they wish to be.”—_Guyau._

“The best service a mother can do her children is to maintain the
standard of her own life at its highest—

    “‘Allure to brighter worlds and lead the way.’”—“_A Great Mother._”

“A child should not need to choose between right and wrong. It should
not conceive of wrong. Obedient, not by sudden strain or effort, but
in the freedom of its bright course of constant life. True, with an
undistinguished, unboastful truth, in a crystalline household of truth.
Gentle, through daily entreatings of gentleness and honourable trusts.
Strong, not in doubtful contest with temptation, but in armour of
habitual right.”—_Ruskin._

“Right dress is that which is fit for the station in life, and the work
to be done in it, and which is otherwise graceful, becoming, lasting,
healthful and easy, on occasion splendid. Always as beautiful as
possible.”—_Ruskin._

“God made the child’s heart for Himself, and He will win it if we do
not mar His work by our impatient folly.”—_Anon._

“Omnipotent the laws of the nursery and the fireside. Fatal for weal or
woe the atmosphere of the home.”—_Delano._

“The soul is hardened by cold and stormy weather.”—_Bunyan._

“System is a fundamental basis of education.”—_Sewell._

“Harmony, not melody, is the object of education. If we strive for
melody we shall but end in producing discord.”—_Sewell._

“The prayers, the love, the patience, the consistent example of
holiness, which are to-day in our power, may be committed to God’s
keeping, in the full confidence that even if not permitted to gather
their reward on earth in the present conversation of the children
we love, it will be ours in the great to-morrow of eternity, when
we shall be permitted to recognise the fulfilment of that enduring
promise—‘Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after
many days.’”—_Sewell._

“Fiction is natural to children. They do not, as a rule, lie
artificially. The lie is the first exercise of the imagination—the
first invention, the germ of art. Children often invent or lie to
themselves. The lie is the first romance of childhood. The child plays
with words as with everything else, and makes phrases without troubling
himself as to reality. The _real_ lie—the _moral_ lie—is dissimulation
which only arises from fear. It is in direct ratio to ill-judged
severity and unscientific education.”—_Guyau._




“OUR HERO.”

BY AGNES GIBERNE, Author of “Sun, Moon and Stars,” “The Girl at the
Dower House,” etc.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

Rapid travelling, ninety years ago, was a comparative term, but Ivor
performed the journey as fast as relays of horses could convey a
post-chaise to the coast, and as quickly as contrary winds would allow
him to cross the Channel.

He sent no warning of his approach. A letter could not go with greater
speed than Denham went himself. Now that he was actually on the road to
Polly, each hour’s delay became all but insupportable. Six long years
since he had said good-bye for one fortnight to Polly! Would she be
altered—as much as he himself was altered?

It was a cold day, late in spring, when he found himself at the front
door of the Bryces’ comfortable mansion. The old butler opened to
Denham, as once before to Roy, but this time Drake was not taken in.
One glance—and his face changed.

“Sir!”

“You know me? I hardly thought you would.” Ivor grasped kindly the old
retainer’s hand. “I am taking you all by surprise.”

“It is a surprise indeed, sir. And I’m heartily glad to see you again.
Not but what you ain’t looking as you should, sir. Them furrin parts
haven’t suited you, I’m thinkin’.”

“Captivity has not suited me. And I have travelled hard, and taken
little rest. But the old country will put me right. Who is in?”

“My mistress, sir, is in the drawing-room, and Miss Keene and Miss
Baron. I was about to take in lights.”

“Wait till I have gone in. And Drake, you can announce me, but don’t
say my name so that it can be heard.”

Drake obeyed to the letter. He threw open the drawing-room door, and
mumbled something inaudible. Denham entered, bowing ceremoniously.

“You can bring lights, Drake,” said Mrs. Bryce. The room was dark, and
the fire had fallen low.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“I’m excessive glad to see you, sir,” Mrs. Bryce declared cordially,
after a hurried whisper to Polly, “_Who_ did he say, my dear? Oh, well,
’tis easy to see—he’s one of the military. A soldier home from the
wars.” Then she turned to Ivor with her welcome. “Mr. Bryce is away,
I’m sorry to say, but doubtless you can await his return, and Mr. Baron
will be in this minute.”

Ivor had some difficulty in recognising his friend Roy under this
designation. Polly was casting half-shy glances at him. Something in
the outline of his figure, dim though the light was, brought Denham to
her mind, but it was not until he spoke that her colour changed fast
from pink to white and from white to pink.

“I shouldn’t be surprised to be informed, sir, that you are but just
home from the war,” said Mrs. Bryce.

“I have not been fighting, I regret to say. My turn for that will no
doubt come. I have been long a prisoner.”

“And you have obtained your release?”

“The Emperor has consented to my return.”

Mrs. Bryce held up both hands.

“That is excessive gracious of him, truly. You are more fortunate than
many. Roy Baron was not so well off, and he had to make his escape. But
he has been since in the Campaign in Portugal and Spain under our great
Commander, Sir John Moore. A truly melancholy story that, sir,—yet he
died as a soldier would choose to die, covered with glory. And Roy—Mr.
Baron, I should say—is now back with us for a little space; and we, his
friends, fondly think he has done well. But will you allow me to offer
you cake and wine? You have a very tired look. What can Drake be about
not to bring the lights?” Mrs. Bryce’s hand was on the bell.

Denham was gazing earnestly towards Polly, so earnestly that she could
not but return the gaze. A thrill ran through her, for there was no
mistaking that voice. Molly took upon herself to put a pointed question:

“Have you come from Verdun, sir, if I might ask?”

“Pray take a seat, sir,” Mrs. Bryce was reiterating. She might as well
have spoken to stone walls.

“I am straight from Verdun,” Ivor replied to Molly’s query. “As I am
fain to think Miss Keene has already divined.”

Polly dropped a curtsey and said nothing. It was not for her to make
any first move. Nobody could hear how her heart fluttered.

“Then, sir, doubtless you will bring messages for us all from the
unfortunate prisoners there detained,” said Mrs. Bryce, not yet
grasping his identity with one of those prisoners.

Drake at this moment carried in the lights, and Roy, entering with him,
cried out in astonishment.

“Den! Why, ’tis Den himself! Can it be in very truth? Den, dear
fellow!”—nearly wringing Ivor’s hands off with the energy of his
welcome.

Pre-occupied though Ivor was with Polly, his gaze rested with
satisfaction upon “his friend Roy.” The boy who had left Verdun for
the dungeons of Bitche was a man now, broad-shouldered, well-built and
soldier-like, frank as ever in manner, yet with a certain something in
the young face, which told not only of endurance, but of the touch of
sorrow. At the present moment, however, Roy’s look was all sunshine.

“I _am_ glad, Den, more glad than words can say. Little I dreamt who I
should find in here! And you’re free! But how is it? How has that come
about? You don’t say old Boney has let you off! Of his own free will?
I wouldn’t have given the old chap credit for so much generosity. What
made him do such a thing? Lucille? No! Bravo, Lucille!”

Nobody else had a chance of being heard. Mrs. Bryce exclaimed and
talked in vain. Polly and Molly waited. Roy’s eager questions had to be
answered, before Denham was allowed to turn elsewhere.

Then came a change of manner and a lowering of voice.

“I shall have no end of things to tell you, things _he_ said of
you too, Den. Ay, I know”—at a slight gesture. “Another time. Yes,
by-and-by. But you’ve seen accounts of the battle. That charge of the
Reserve through the valley wasn’t bad! French column tried to turn
our flank, you know. We did just knock ’em into a cocked hat and no
mistake. The column just simply ceased to exist.”

Molly tried to put in a word, and was baffled.

“You’ll be as furious as I am at some of the comments in the papers.
The utter ignoramuses! What about? Why, the state of our Army getting
back from Spain. I should think the poor fellows _were_ scarecrows,
after all they’d gone through. Small wonder either! The scarecrows
made the enemy give an uncommon good account of ’emselves at Coruña,
all the same. But people here seem to think an Army can walk through a
Campaign, and come back every inch as spick and span as when it left
British shores. Much they know about the matter! And if shoes did wear
out, and our fellows got back barefoot, whose fault was that but the
fault of those who made the shoes at home?”

So much Roy poured out impulsively. Then he stopped. A consciousness
had broken upon him of something unsatisfactory, something impending.
Denham’s face was to him as an open book, and he saw written there
more things than one. One thing that he saw made him turn sharply to
Polly, as she stood a little way off, prettily composed. Was _this_ the
meeting of the two, after six years of enforced separation?

Roy recalled his talk with Polly on his return from Bitche, and in a
flash he read the true state of affairs. He looked hard at each in turn.

“Polly, didn’t I tell you? He has come back.”

Polly stirred slightly.

“You understand? ’Tis Den himself.”

It was necessary for Polly to answer.

“Captain Ivor is indeed most fortunate to have obtained his release,”
she said, adjusting her scarf.

“Fortunate to have obtained his release!” repeated Roy slowly.

Then he acted, with a decision and promptitude worthy of his vocation
in life. A gesture ordered Molly to make herself scarce. Seizing Mrs.
Bryce by the arm, he dragged away that astonished lady, reserving
explanations till they were outside the room. After which he poured
forth profuse apologies, but would allow no re-entrance, literally
setting his back against the door.

(_To be concluded._)




ON SOME POINTS OF DEPORTMENT IN SINGING.


I hope you who read these words will not think that I am encouraging
the vanity of which we all, girls and boys too, possess a certain
amount, in giving a few suggestions which may help to dispel some of
the awkwardness so often shown by the young and inexperienced vocalist.

How often, usually at the moment of going on the platform at some small
amateur concert, have I heard the cry, “Oh, I must have a piece of
music to hold in my hand!” from some nervous young singer, oppressed by
the feeling that she is all hands and has nowhere to hide them!

How often has a pretty song, tastefully sung, been spoiled by a
wriggling of the shoulders, or a rocking of the body from side to side
most irritating to behold!

How often has a song “breathing of scent and flowers,” of love and
spring-time, been warbled with a forbidding scowl and wrinkled
forehead—the expression of the whole face suggesting some hidden agony
rather than interpreting the spirit of the composition!

All these things are most distracting to a listener and detract
considerably from the effect of the performance; and a little trouble
and study, combined with the assistance of your good and true friend
the looking-glass, will do much to improve matters.

Let us take the three points I have mentioned in their order.

First the hands. Clasp them loosely in front of you and then forget all
about them! Make a point of practising it whenever you are fortunate
enough to obtain an accompanist to play for you, or when you are having
your singing lessons. Commit your song to memory so as to dispense with
the music, stand away from the pianoforte, avoid propping yourself
against the wall or leaning upon the furniture, stand easily, and let
your hands clasp naturally and comfortably.

Now for the wriggling. Any of you who have had your photograph taken
must remember the unpleasant little arrangement which the photographer
sticks behind your head to keep it still; and some of you may have
protested against the discomfort and unnaturalness of it and have
appealed to be allowed to pose without it, only to get the answer that
it is indispensable, as the head moves constantly, though not enough
to be noticed, yet sufficiently to spoil any exposure longer than an
instantaneous one. And yet the person being photographed is apparently
motionless! Now watch someone who is telling some exciting news or
some funny story, and you will see that the head moves with every word
spoken—the more emphasis, the more movement!

I remind you of these things in order to show you how very necessary
movement is to us and how, naturally, the head moves in speech rather
than the body.

If you carefully watch a confirmed wriggler, you will notice that,
though the body sways or the shoulders move, the head is very rigid
and is usually held very high, and altogether the position looks
constrained and awkward, and it has a disastrous effect upon the voice,
for all these little awkwardnesses and uglinesses mean that there is
a corresponding unnaturalness of production, and the memorable maxim
in the Koran, that “there are many roads to Heaven, but only one
gate,” applies forcibly to singing, in the respect that the only true
singer is he who produces his voice with the most ease and simplicity
(though that may have only been acquired by the hardest study) quite
irrespective of the particular method by which he has been taught.

There is one great drawback which we must take into consideration from
which all singers suffer more or less, and which is at the root of most
of these faults of “deportment” and of this one in particular, and it
is this.

A certain amount of nervousness is inseparable from singing,
whether we sing to just one or two chosen friends or before a
large concert audience, and even when we won’t confess to “feeling
nervous,” we cannot escape from another form of it and a very trying
one—self-consciousness. And the usual result of self-consciousness is
to seize upon the muscles of the throat, to cramp and contract them
till the head is held as if in a vice, so that the voice comes hard and
strained; and as the natural movement of the head is prevented by this
rigidity, Nature (who never stands still) asserts herself by giving
the necessary movement to the body instead; hence the wriggling of the
shoulders and the rocking from side to side.

In this case prevention is better than cure, and the best thing to do
is to practise diligently moving the head from side to side whilst
singing, especially when practising exercises. Do not raise it high,
and avoid the inclination to raise it as the voice rises to the higher
notes; but move it freely and constantly from side to side. At first
you will find this very awkward, and it will seem terribly unnatural
and ridiculous; but persevere, and you will find that not only your
appearance will be improved, but your voice will come easily and
your throat will not get that aching, tired feeling of which so many
complain after singing for quite a few minutes, and which is due to the
contraction of the throat and the constrained position of the head.

For the third point, facial expression, I commend you to your
looking-glass. Indeed, the greater part of your study should be done
with its assistance. First to be assured that your mouth is open, then
to watch that no grimaces appear, no pucker between the brows, no
opening the mouth crookedly, no blinking of the eyelids. Try to let
your expression vary as freely as it does when you are talking.

Remember you have only your face to assist you. A reciter can call
gesture to her aid; but a singer does not want to do anything that
might bring down upon her the accusation of being “theatrical.” She
wants to stand quietly and naturally, her hands folded, her head rather
low, and tell her story, her face changing with the changes of her song.

But bear in mind that all these things which come naturally to us when
we are not thinking about them or about ourselves become unnatural when
we are struggling in the grasp of the demon self-consciousness, and it
is for that reason that I conclude these hints with the paradoxical
reminder that as the unstudied and natural usually looks constrained
and unnatural, our aim must be to learn artificially and to practise
incessantly to look natural.

    FLORENCE CAMPBELL PERUGINI.




HANGING CASE FOR UMBRELLAS AND STICKS.


From Edinburgh comes this very useful pattern. It can be hung
permanently in one’s bedroom to preserve parasols, etc., from dust, in
which case we suggest the use of two nails, eight inches apart, instead
of one as in A, Fig. 3; it can be rolled up when travelling, and when
unpacked suspended from any hook in the wardrobe. One yard of strong
art serge or any other suitable material not less than forty-two inches
wide will make two. The back part is cut according to Fig. 1. Fig. 2
represents the front portion which has two box pleats at the lower
edge to make the necessary fulness and should be so folded as to fit
exactly on to the back part. There is a line of stitching through back
and front from C to D, thus making two pockets. Tack the corners AA and
BB together and continue round each side to D. The whole case must be
neatly bound with ribbon or braid, and the loop added for hanging. The
front of the pocket (Fig. 2) should be bound from A to B before fixing
it in position.

    “COUSIN LIL.”

[Illustration: _FIG 1_]

[Illustration: _FIG 2_]

[Illustration: _FIG 3_]




“AFTERNOON TEA;” A CHAT OVER THE TEACUPS.

BY AMY S. WOODS.


Within the last twenty years the simple but most popular meal known by
the name of “afternoon tea” has become a prominent feature in domestic
and social life.

“Afternoon tea!” The very words suggest to our minds pleasant visions
of cosy fireside tea and talk on winter afternoons, or lazy enjoyment
of the “cup that cheers” under the welcome shade of some spreading tree
in drowsy summer-time.

True, the institution of this meal has been much condemned of late. We
are told that women drink far more tea than is good for them and are
growing more nervous in consequence; while the sterner sex complain
that the enjoyment of their dinner is spoiled by their previous
indulgence in the dainties of the tea-table.

Nevertheless, I think even those who cavil most at the evil influence
of tea and its accompanying delicacies would, in their hearts, be sorry
to witness the abolition of a meal which has won the support of so
large a section of English society, from royalty downwards.

[Illustration: AFTERNOON TEA.]

To those who are weary of formal entertainments, it comes as a boon and
a blessing, while to those whose love of social pleasures is larger
than their purse it is even more welcome, as it enables them to
entertain their friends more frequently, with but little of the cost
and trouble which more elaborate social gatherings involve. And it is
to this latter class of afternoon-tea devotees that I dedicate the
following recipes and suggestions.

It is easy for dwellers in London or other large towns to obtain a nice
variety of cakes and biscuits wherewith to grace their tea-tables;
but those who live in country villages are less fortunate, and are
sometimes sadly conscious of lack of variety in the cakes they can
make or procure. I hope therefore that the recipes here given will be
acceptable to all those who are willing to spend a little care and
trouble in carrying them out. Most of them are capable of further
variation, and clever heads and fingers will devise artistic and dainty
decorations and ornamentations for themselves, the result of which
will be that their cakes will be quite as beautiful to look upon, and
probably more beautiful to eat than those supplied by a fashionable
confectioner.

One thing must be remembered by all aspiring cake-makers, viz., that
dainty cakes and biscuits require time, care, and patience in their
production, and cakes that are hurriedly made are seldom satisfactory.
Another point to be remembered is that afternoon tea is not a
substantial meal, so that we must endeavour to have all our dishes as
dainty and elegant as possible both in their composition and manner of
serving.

We cannot perhaps all boast of silver or Sheraton tea-trays, or of
Dresden or Worcester china; but a plain linen or small-patterned damask
cloth embroidered with a large initial, and either prettily hemstitched
or edged with Torchon lace, will hide all the deficiencies of our
tea-tray, and now that such pretty Coalport china can be bought at such
a reasonable price, no one need be without a charming tea-set.

In arranging the china and linen for afternoon tea, it will be well to
remember that coloured china looks best upon a white cloth or upon a
cream-coloured one embroidered in silks or flax threads to match the
colours in the china, while for use with plain white or white-and-gold
china a cloth of art linen, in plain blue, yellow or pink, with white
embroidery is most suitable.

Nor need any hostess lament over her scarcity of small silver table
appointments in the way of teapot and cream jugs and sugar basins, for
a china teapot and hot-water jug and the sweet wee cream jugs and tiny
basins now sold to match almost every stock pattern of china, look
quite as dainty and artistic as their more imposing silver brethren.

See that your bread-and-butter is delicately thin, and that it and your
cakes and sandwiches are served upon dainty doyleys of fringed damask,
and if you provide two small plates, one with brown and one with white
bread-and-butter, they will be found more convenient to hand about than
one large plate.

When there is only a small party, the use of a luncheon tray, with
three divisions, will save trouble in handing cakes, etc., and, be it
whispered, these same trays are also convenient when your stock of cake
is low, as small pieces of cake which could not possibly attain to the
dignity of the cake-basket, will make quite an imposing appearance
if cut in slices and arranged in one division of the tray, with some
biscuits in the second and some carefully-rolled bread-and-butter in
the third.

No doubt all my readers are acquainted with the silver or
electro-plated handles which are now sold for attaching to cake and
bread-and-butter plates, and a very convenient invention too; but
should your means preclude your indulgence in these luxuries, do not,
I pray you, be inveigled into buying the substitutes made of a sort
of millinery arrangement of wire, ribbon, and artificial flowers.
They soon become shabby and tawdry, while even when they can boast of
pristine freshness the idea of ribbon and artificial flowers in such
close proximity to eatables is to my mind at once incongruous and
inartistic.

In cutting bread-and-butter or sandwiches, a loaf at least twenty-four
hours old should be used, as it is impossible to obtain a satisfactory
result with new bread. Servants, it may be noted, are as a rule far
too liberal with the butter, which they often leave in lumps in any
holes there may be in the surface of the bread; and should the bread be
cut as thin as it ought to be, the butter will probably work its way
through to the other side with very unpleasantly greasy results.

And now for the recipes themselves, and as savoury sandwiches—and,
indeed, sandwiches of every kind—are always favourites we will have a
friendly chat concerning them before passing on to cakes and biscuits.

For the foundation of all sandwiches, we must use evenly cut, and not
too liberally buttered, bread, and be very careful that our seasoning
is generously used, but with discretion. To crunch a lump of salt in a
sandwich is by no means a pleasant experience.

_Cress Sandwiches_, though always appreciated, are simplicity itself.
Carefully wash and thoroughly dry the cress, arrange on slices of
bread-and-butter, sprinkle with salt, and, after pressing the covering
slices firmly down, cut into two-inch squares and pile on a doyley,
garnishing with tiny bunches of cress.

_Watercress Sandwiches_ are made in the same way, using only the
leaves, which must be most carefully washed in salt and water. Most
people consider the addition of a little mayonnaise sauce a great
improvement, and the following will be found a simple but excellent way
to make it:

Rub the yolk of a hard-boiled egg very smooth, adding a good pinch of
salt, a grain or two of cayenne pepper, and a quarter of a teaspoonful
of made mustard; then add alternately, and drop by drop, lest the sauce
should curdle, one tablespoonful of vinegar and two of salad oil, and
one tablespoonful of very thick cream. Use a wooden spoon for the
mixing, and do not make the sauce too liquid or it will ooze through
the sandwiches.

_Chicken Sandwiches_, made with a little finely pounded chicken with a
layer of watercress or lettuce and a little mayonnaise, are excellent.

_Cucumber Sandwiches_ are always welcome in hot weather. Soak the
slices of cucumber in some well-seasoned vinegar for two or three
hours before using, turning it frequently. Cut the bread round each
slice of cucumber with a small round pastry-cutter and garnish with
parsley. A little dab of mayonnaise in each sandwich is a great
improvement.

_Shrimp Sandwiches_ are delicious. From a pint of shrimps, pick out a
few of the largest with which to garnish your sandwiches, shell the
remainder and allow them to get thoroughly hot over the fire (but not
to boil) in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or two ounces of
butter and two tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and a discreet seasoning
of salt and pepper. Pound the mixture in a mortar until perfectly
smooth, and then spread upon either white or brown bread-and-butter,
and cut the sandwiches into rounds. A dariole or tiny pudding-mould
with a crimped edge answers capitally for the purpose. Pile upon a
doyley and garnish with the shrimps upon some fresh parsley.

Crab or lobster paste prepared in the same way but with the addition of
a little mustard and vinegar, and no cream, makes excellent sandwiches.

_Anchovy Sandwiches_ are made in the same way, using a good brand of
anchovy paste instead of the shrimp mixture. If you have plenty of
eggs at command, the hard-boiled yolks of two, pounded to a paste with
two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of anchovy paste, will make a
superior sandwich.

_Egg Sandwiches_ are filled with the same paste of pounded eggs, well
seasoned, but without the anchovy; another ounce of butter or two
tablespoonfuls of cream is an improvement in this case.

So much for sandwiches; the eight varieties I have mentioned will serve
as a foundation from which clever housekeepers will devise numerous
other kinds. Almost any scraps of shell-fish, game, or poultry, can be
pounded and used as I have described, and if the seasoning is all that
it should be, and the sandwiches are delicately made and served, they
will always find some appreciative mortals to enjoy them!

       *       *       *       *       *

And now to turn our attention to the cakes and biscuits, which I hope
my fair readers will make with their own dainty hands, and thus ensure
success, even if it be evolved from early failures.

Before passing on to the actual recipes, will they accept six general
hints as to successful cake-making?

Firstly (as I have said before)—Give yourself time, and do not hurry or
slur over any part of the process.

Secondly—Be sure your oven is at the right temperature before you put
in your cakes. A quick oven is best for buns and small cakes, and a
tolerably quick one to raise large cakes, and then the heat must be
lowered and kept at a regular temperature to bake them through. When a
cake has risen, lay a sheet of buttered paper over the top to prevent
it blackening. To ascertain if a cake is sufficiently baked, plunge a
clean knife or skewer through the centre; if it comes out clean and dry
the cake is baked, if sticky, it requires further baking.

Thirdly—Be very careful that your cake-tins or moulds are thoroughly
clean and well greased. Line your plain tins with well-greased plain
paper, not printed. The tins for small cakes such as queen cakes should
be sprinkled with flour and castor sugar after they are buttered.

Fourthly—Use only the best flour, and see that it is well dried,
sifted, and warmed before using. Clean currants and sultanas with flour
on a sieve; this not only cleans them but prevents them from sinking in
the cake.

Fifthly—Before commencing to mix your cake, be sure your tins are
ready, and that you have round you all your ingredients weighed and
prepared, so that you may not have to leave your cake unfinished while
you fetch something you have forgotten. All cakes but those made with
yeast should be baked directly the mixing is finished.

Sixthly—Do not be disheartened if your first attempt to make a new
cake is a failure. We too often forget that success is frequently the
outcome of many failures.

Before giving any recipes for fancy cakes, let me advise you to give
the following recipes for “Sally Lunns” and “Tea Cakes made with
yeast,” a trial.

For the former, mix half a teaspoonful of salt in a pound of flour, and
add three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Melt half an ounce of butter in half
a pint of new milk, and when milk-warm pour it over half an ounce of
German yeast. Add a well-beaten egg and a little grated nutmeg. Stir
lightly into the flour with a wooden spoon, cover with a cloth and set
it in a warm place to rise; then bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in
a quick oven. Some well-greased hoops are best to use for baking Sally
Lunns, and the cakes should be brushed over with some beaten egg before
they are quite baked. To serve, split each one into three slices, toast
a delicate brown, butter and cut each slice in two, place together and
serve on a very hot plate.

For _Tea Cakes_ take two pounds of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt,
quarter of a pound of butter or lard, and three ounces of sugar, with
a few currants or sultanas if liked. Mix half an ounce of German yeast
with three-quarters of a pint of warm milk and one egg. Rub the butter
into the flour, and add the other dry ingredients, mix in the liquid
part and knead lightly, and then set to rise. When sufficiently light
divide into round cakes, place on a baking-sheet and allow them to
remain a few minutes longer to rise again before baking. They will
require from a quarter to half an hour in a good oven. They may either
be split open, buttered, and eaten while hot, or toasted in the same
way as Sally Lunns. The great culinary authority, M. Soyer, recommends
that after toasting cakes or hot buttered toast, each piece should be
cut through separately and then placed together, as when the whole is
divided at once the pressure needed to force the knife down to the
plate, forces the butter into the lowest slice, which is often swimming
in grease while the upper slices are comparatively dry.

And now we will turn our attention to a few cakes which I can cordially
recommend. Let us take _Cherry Cake_ to commence with. For this you
will require six ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, three ounces
of castor sugar, two eggs, the grated rind of half a lemon, two ounces
of crystallised or glacé cherries and a teaspoonful of baking-powder.
Slightly warm but do not oil the butter, beat it to a cream with the
sugar and lemon, add the eggs, well beaten, then the flour and cherries
(cut in halves), and lastly the baking-powder. Whisk thoroughly, pour
into a paper-lined tin and bake from three-quarters to half an hour.
Another plan is to bake the cake in a Yorkshire pudding tin, and when
baked to cover the top with pink icing, made with the white of an egg
beaten up till fairly liquid but not frothy, and mixed very smoothly
with sufficient icing sugar to make a smooth paste. You will find the
readiest way of doing this is to use a wooden spoon on a dinner-plate,
holding the bowl of the spoon with the fingers; a little practice and
patience are needed to make the icing perfectly smooth, but remember
one lump spoils the appearance of the icing. Add a few drops of
cochineal and a few drops of vanilla flavouring, and spread the icing
evenly over the top of the cake with a paper knife or dessert knife;
a steel one must not be used. Take off any drops that may run over the
sides of the cake and divide it in two pieces while the icing is wet,
then dry at the mouth of the oven.

For _Orange Cake_ take the weight of three eggs in butter, sugar and
flour, the grated rind and strained juice of an orange, or two, if
small, and a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Make and bake the cake in
exactly the same way as the preceding one, but if iced, use white
icing, or colour it with a little grated orange-rind and juice, using
orange-juice to flavour it.

_Madeira Cake_ is made in the same way and with the same proportions,
but the orange is of course omitted and some finely-sliced lemon or
candied peel substituted as a flavouring, or a little essence of
vanilla.

For various kinds of cake you cannot have a better foundation than by
taking the weight of as many eggs as you wish to use, in flour, butter
and sugar, and then adding the various flavourings and a teaspoonful,
more or less, according to the number of eggs, of baking-powder.

Desiccated cocoanut makes a nice change if _Cocoanut Cake_ is desired,
or, if you do not mind the trouble of grating it, the fresh cocoanut is
of course superior. After the cake is baked brush the top over with a
little white of egg and scatter some of the cocoanut upon it.

Twelve delicious little _Rice Cakes_ may be made by taking one egg and
its weight in sugar and butter, half its weight in ground rice and half
in wheaten flour. When mixing add the rice after the flour, and also
a few drops of flavouring or the grated rind of half a lemon. Bake in
small tins in a quick oven for ten minutes. If two or more eggs are
used and the other ingredients increased in proportion an excellent
cake can be made.

_Almond Buns_ are also nice. For these take half a pound of flour, six
ounces of butter, six ounces of castor sugar, four ounces of almonds
blanched and chopped, and a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix together
the butter, sugar, eggs and flour, add the almonds and baking-powder
last, form into buns and bake on a buttered tin for twenty minutes.

_Queen Cakes_ are always favourites but require careful making and
the proper heart-shaped tins to bake them in. Prepare the tins as
previously directed by buttering them very thoroughly and sprinkling
with castor sugar and flour. Then take three eggs, their weight in
fresh butter, sugar, flour, and currants, and the grated rind of a
lemon. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, fruit, and a
pinch of salt, then the flour and half a teaspoonful of baking-powder,
and lastly a small wineglassful of good brandy. Whisk thoroughly, shake
off any loose flour or sugar from the tins, fill them three parts full
of the mixture and hit each one sharply on the table before putting in
the oven. Bake for twenty minutes.

_Genoese Pastry_ is also popular, but cannot be made in a hurry. Take
half a pound of butter, half a pound of castor sugar, half a pound of
flour, the yolks of two eggs and the yolks and whites of two more eggs,
and half a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Mix thoroughly, spread evenly
over sheets of buttered paper placed in Yorkshire pudding tins, smooth
over with a knife dipped in boiling water, and bake twenty minutes in a
moderate oven, but keep the cake a pale brown colour.

While it is baking prepare some icing as directed for cherry cake,
using the two whites of egg left over from the cake. Divide into two
portions on two plates, colouring one pink and leaving the other
white; flavour the former with a little raspberry syrup, or juice
from some jam, and the latter with vanilla, lemon, or a little
maraschino liqueur. Dissolve half an ounce of grated chocolate with
two tablespoonfuls of water and stir it over the fire till thoroughly
smooth and liquid, adding two or three lumps of sugar. If you have not
a forcing bag with which to ornament your icing, or if you are not
an adept in the use of it, provide yourself with a few crystallised
cherries, blanched almonds, chopped pistachio nuts, and pink and white
comfits with which to decorate your cakes. How they shall be decorated
I leave to your own artistic minds to decide—only reminding you that
almonds, pistachio nuts or a neat pattern of pink and white icing, or
a border of alternate pink and white comfits are most suitable for
decorating chocolate icing, while cherries and pink sugar look best on
white, and almonds and white sugar on pink. A very speedy and effective
decoration is to sprinkle white grated cocoanut on your pink cakes, and
a mixture of pink (coloured with cochineal) and pale green (coloured
with spinach juice) on white icing, using a mixture of all three
colours on the chocolate. The study of the cakes in some high-class
confectioner’s will help you here. When the cake is baked lift it by
the paper on to a clean pastry-board, remove the paper, divide each
slab of cake across, and then split it open. On one piece put raspberry
jam and press the other half upon it while hot; on another marmalade,
on the third apricot, and on the last strawberry or pineapple. Pour
over the apricot cake your chocolate icing, and while still hot cut
into strips about two and a half inches wide, and then cut again
slantwise across the strips so as to form diamond-shaped pieces. Then
place them at the mouth of the oven to dry, while you proceed in the
same way with your other cakes. Be careful to use your pink icing
with the red jam, and white with the yellow. When partially dry the
decorations must be added, otherwise they will not adhere to the icing,
and then the cakes must be again dried until the icing will not take
the impression of the finger when pressed upon it.

_Scotch Shortbread_ is a favourite with many people, though hardly to
be commended to the notice of dyspeptic sufferers. The following recipe
for it, given to me by a Scotchwoman, will be found a very good one.

One pound of flour, four ounces of ground rice, one pound and a quarter
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a little candied peel,
and a pinch of salt. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and
very gradually sift in the flour and rice; work with the hands till
quite smooth and divide into six pieces. Put each piece on a sheet of
paper and roll out to the thickness of half an inch, prick it all over,
lay on it the pieces of candied peel, pinch the edges, and bake in a
moderate oven from twenty minutes to half an hour.

_Fancy Biscuits_ can be made at home, and will be found quite equal in
taste and appearance to the more expensive kinds sold in the shops.
Care must be taken that the oven is not too hot as they will not look
well if they are browned; and the flour and sugar used for them must
be very finely sifted and thoroughly dry. To make four varieties of
these biscuits at once, take one pound of fresh butter and cream it
with half a pound of castor sugar, and add two well-beaten eggs. When
well whisked divide the mixture into four basins. Divide also a pound
of fine flour into four parts. To the contents of the first basin add
a quarter of a pound of flour and two tablespoonfuls of ground ginger.
Mix well. Turn on to a floured board, roll out to the thickness of a
quarter of an inch, cut out with a small pastry-cutter or the top of a
wineglass, place a piece of candied peel or a preserved cherry on each,
and bake on a sheet of buttered paper laid on a baking tin for about
twenty minutes. Proceed in the same way with the second portion, but
instead of the ginger add the grated rind and juice of an orange, and
if needed, a tablespoonful more flour. To the third division add half a
teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring, and ornament the top of each biscuit
with a little pink and white icing after baking. If the biscuits are
made stiff they will keep their shape well in the baking, and may be
cut into various fancy patterns such as ivy leaves, stars, diamonds,
etc. Ivy leaves with the veins put on in white or pink icing are very
pretty. To the last basin add one ounce of finely-chopped almonds, and
make the biscuits oval in form with two strips of blanched almonds
on the top. Walnuts may be used instead of almonds, in which case I
should make the biscuits in the shape of a half walnut shell with half
a peeled walnut on the flat part. These would require to be made very
stiff. Chocolate icing is very nice to put on vanilla biscuits.

And now space warns me that our chat over the tea-table must come to an
end. I hope that the few simple recipes I have given will be found both
good and economical. Too economical perhaps for some of my friends, but
I would remind all who wish for richer cakes that in the many excellent
cookery-books, both French and English, now published, they will find
recipes which cannot fail to win their most cordial appreciation. Yet
in all humility I venture to hope these few hints of mine may win a
meed of fainter praise from those who, appreciating dainty cookery,
have yet to study economy in their household management.

[Illustration]




THE HOUSE WITH THE VERANDAH.

BY ISABELLA FYVIE MAYO, Author of “Other People’s Stairs,” “Her Object
in Life,” etc.


CHAPTER XI.

A MOTHER AT HOME.

“This holiday season is bad for advertisements,” Miss Latimer decided.
“I fear you must give another trial to registry offices. Other methods
take time, especially private recommendations among shopkeepers or
acquaintances—which is the best. You have only a week in which to make
your arrangements. But do not go again to great registry offices, which
let down their nets in wide waters, and catch many queer fish. I know a
little quiet registry about midway between this house and my lodgings.
Not a big professional place, my dear, but a shop. I suppose the
registry is little more than an adjunct to the shop. But when I pass, I
see a great many young women going in and out.”

“Should I have to go there to meet them?” asked Lucy, with a look of
repugnance.

“Oh, dear, no,” Miss Latimer answered. “That is not done save in the
big offices, unless an appointment is desired by some mistress from
the country. Young women who seem likely to suit are sent to wait upon
you in your house. If you decide on this, you can go there and give
instructions to-morrow morning; I can keep house and look after Hugh
during your absence. I wish I could give you better advice, but I think
you must avail yourself of this for the present urgent necessity.”

Lucy accepted the counsel. She found the address Miss Latimer gave
her. It was in one of the long roads which skirt the centre of
London—roads which were rural once, and where, here and there, a garden
still lingers isolated among the shops which have been built over its
neighbours. Lucy’s destination was one of these shops set out with
servants’ caps, aprons, small haberdashery wares, stationery, and a few
cheap books. On the little counter was a big desk laden with ledgers
and festooned with files of letters, and behind the desk stood an
elderly woman. She had an air of old-fashioned gentility about her. She
wore no cap, but her glossy, waving hair, unmingled with silver, hung
in two or three curls and was done up in a crisp little knot behind.
Her brown merino gown was severely simple and well kept, with no frill
or ornament whatever, save an out-of-date embroidered collar, fastened
by an “In Memoriam” brooch. There was nothing frowsy about this woman,
nothing unctuous or self-indulgent in her thin sharp face, nor servile
or fawning in her rather abrupt manner. Lucy was prepossessed by her,
because she was so unlike the official at the big registry office.

This alert person had little encouragement to give. “Generals” were
said to be few and far between. She asked Lucy searching questions
about the situation she had to offer, saying that the young women would
expect her to tell them all about it before they walked so far. She
said that it would not recommend the place to most of them that it was
very quiet; they generally thought that meant a “particular,” fidgety
mistress, and “they didn’t mind a little more work if they could get
the more of their own way.” Lucy said she would prefer an elderly
woman, as she would be left much alone in the house. But the alert
person shook her head, saying that in nine cases out of ten an elderly
woman who would take such a place would drink—a statement which Lucy,
after her recent experience, was not prepared to deny. The alert person
promised “to do her best.” The fee for putting Mrs. Challoner’s name on
her “book” would be only one shilling; she would go on sending girls
till Mrs. Challoner was “suited,” when there would be another charge of
four shillings.

Lucy walked home, feeling that she and the post she had to offer were
at a terrible discount. As she watched the half-starved, slipshod,
ill-clad girls who were carrying packages in and out of various small
“home” manufacturing premises in the district through which her journey
lay, she wondered bitterly what had gone wrong with domestic service,
that its wholesome food, snug shelter, and respectability were rejected
in favour of this tramping, trailing drudgery. She knew enough of
social conditions to know that few of those girls earned wages higher
than her servant’s salary, while these had to provide everything out
of their earnings, and her maid had to buy only her clothes, and had
plenty of leisure to make and mend them. This proved that no mere
increase of wages will bring back the tide of female labour to the
haven of domestic service. It has already voluntarily ebbed away to
decreased emoluments.

This actually comforted Lucy a little. For though she was already
paying all the wage her means could honestly afford, yet she had begun
to reflect bitterly that, between the two registry offices, she had
already laid out six shillings in less than two months, not to mention
“deterioration of household stock” in burnt napery and other kitchen
damages, still less to consider the wear and tear of her own nerves and
the loss of her own time. If she was to go on paying and losing at this
rate, she had realised that it would come to the same thing as offering
twenty or twenty-two pounds a year.

But as she saw those squalid workgirls, it was borne in upon her that
the form of labour she wanted had become scarce at any price, and that
at any wage she might find the same heart-breaking disappointment.

Lucy gazed curiously at the crowds of young women who lounged or
hurried past her. By the signboards on the forlorn houses behind
the decaying gardens, she could guess the callings of the crowd.
There were tailoresses, hat-sewers, cardboard-box makers, artificial
florists. Looking at them, Lucy could not wish that any of them should
change her mind and seek the vacant place in the kitchen. From their
appearance most of them had been living poorly on sedentary work for
years, and whatever they might have been at the beginning, they were
sallow and haggard now. No signs of self-respect were visible on their
raiment, though there was a pitiful display of draggled plumes, and
sham jewellery worn over garments which seemed to have been bought
third-hand, and boots such as one often sees thrown away on road-sides.
Such strength as they had was clearly the strange perverted strength
that resists bad atmospheres and monotonous misery, but few indeed had
any sign of the wholesome vigour that is needed for honest household
work.

“They must have their freedom, I suppose,” said Lucy to herself,
dreamily repeating an axiom which she had often heard thrown down in
scorn and contempt by irate matrons caught in the strait where she was
now fixed.

Their freedom to do what? Freedom to toil at some soul-deadening task
for eight or ten hours to earn a shilling—for the whole round of
the clock to gain eighteenpence. Freedom to live crowded in noisome
rooms among ever-shifting “neighbours,” to go untidy, to eat bad food
ill-cooked. Freedom on Bank holidays with their rowdy crowds; freedom
(when one is not too tired) to run about the gas-lit streets, or to sit
in tobacco-reeking music-halls; freedom, in such dangerous proximity to
the hospital, the casual ward, the pauper’s grave!

Lucy thought of what she understood by freedom. A life of useful
labour, leisure for friendship, books, the joys of music and of
pictures, of flowers and sunset skies, of wild wood and breezy shore.

And then she reflected. If it should be this kind of freedom that girls
wanted—the sort of thing that Lucy herself meant by freedom—could she
promise them that this was to be found in average domestic service any
more than that other freedom for which the poor souls around her were
willing to pay so dear?

“The matter has got out of joint somehow,” she thought. “New social
ideals, both good and bad, have gained sway in these days, and I fear
that the majority of the mistresses have tried to shut out both from
influencing the ways of domestic service. The consequence is, the bad
ideals have withdrawn the mass of girls from household life. I should
not wonder but the mothers of most of these girls have been domestic
servants. Yet what they have told their daughters (possibly quite as
often in commendation and praise as in bitterness and warning) has not
attracted the girls, because they are not living in the same world as
their mothers lived, and they have picked up the fact that domestic
service is, in the main, left stationary in the out-of-date sphere.”

Lucy knew that she had not got her own progressive ideas concerning
domestic service in her own parents’ house. She had got suggestions
when visiting in the houses of schoolfellows belonging to thoughtfully
“advanced” families, and these suggestions had opened her eyes to see
the connection between this department of human life and the teachings
she found in the best books she came across. Miss Latimer herself
had often been helpful. Also when once Lucy’s days of courtship and
marriage had begun, there was a fresh humanity in all Charlie’s ways
of looking at things, which permeated her mind, and carried away
lingering prejudices and preconceptions as a sweet breeze blows away
the stuffiness of long-closed chambers.

Lucy’s own mother, who had died two years before Lucy’s marriage, had
been a matron of the old school, kind and considerate to her servants,
as she would have been to her pony or her dog, but with far less
consideration for their individuality than many sympathetic people give
to that of their four-footed pets. She expected her maids to go to
her place of worship. She would have been surprised ever to see them
with a book, save on Sunday, and then only with books which she “lent”
them. She allowed no variation in their household uniform, and in
their “best” dresses she looked askance at a puff or a flounce. Their
letters had to be addressed to their unprefixed names. No visitors
were allowed. They had their regulated “hours off” once a week, and
these were never diverged from, varied or exceeded. A request for an
arrangement for a fortnight’s holiday would have been met by instant
dismissal.

Even in those earlier days, when Lucy had never questioned the
righteousness of these domestic methods, she had yet somehow got an
uneasy consciousness that they were tottering to their fall. She could
not tell how she had got that impression, whether from murmurs in the
kitchen or from added tenacity in the hand laid on the domestic reins.
The house had been handsome, well kept and comfortable; the service
perfectly regulated and reasonably well paid, the conditions which
long defer catastrophe whether in states or households. It had been as
one of the last strongholds of an ancient _régime_ still holding out,
though outposts are fast falling.

Lucy’s father had not survived his wife many months. He had been
counted a wealthy man, but there had been such a revolution in his
special article of commerce that when he died his estate barely met his
liabilities. Jem Brand, the young stockbroker, had received a small
dowry with Florence when he married her. But after the father’s debts
were paid, there was not a penny left for Lucy, who had thankfully
utilised her natural gifts and the excellent training they had received
by accepting the position of art teacher at the St. George’s Institute,
which position she had filled for more than a year before her marriage.

Perhaps Lucy had grown more inclined to broader ways of thought and
simpler ways of life, because they had brought its crowning joy into
her own life. Charlie Challoner had met her first in her independent
breadwinning capacity. He was wont to say that if he had known her as a
rich man’s daughter he would not have dared to woo her, and it is quite
certain that a young professional man, with all his way to make, and
with neither family nor fortune to serve him, would have received scant
welcome from either of Lucy’s parents.

All these memories glanced through her mind as she hurried home. She
reflected too, that the present transitional and contradictory state
of the domestic world was further indicated by the fact that though
her sister, Mrs. Brand, held all their mother’s household theories,
yet their mother would have disapproved far more of the Brand _ménage_
than she would of Lucy’s household, as that had been conducted during
the seven years of Pollie’s service. Surely this went to show that
the desirable results of the old order of things were now best to be
secured under the new order!

Lucy said to herself—

“Well, I must be patient, and remember that my own position is rather
exceptional. Domestic life, just now, seems to be of the nature of a
series of experiments, while I stand at too critical a corner to find
such experiments edifying or pleasant. I must do what everybody has to
do—from prime ministers down to chimney-sweeps—make the best of the bad
job left by those who have gone before me, and try my utmost not to
make it worse for those coming after me!”

She entered her home, tired enough, and knowing that there could be no
rest till bedtime. But she had made up her mind to be cheerful at all
costs. Lo, on the hall-table lay something which made overflowing joy
to be the easiest thing possible. There was a letter from Charlie!

It was marked “Ship letter,” and the last few lines (which in her
bewildered joy she read first) had evidently been written in wild
haste: “Homeward bound ship in sight—passing close by—Grant thinks
opportunity for letter. God bless and keep you.—CHARLIE.”

“God bless and keep you!” The benediction folded her round. She was no
more tired, no more disheartened. She was ready for anything!

And how much more so after she had read the whole letter! All was going
well. The weather had been so propitious that Charlie had been able
to be on deck nearly all day. He had grown so brown and plump that
he scarcely knew his own face in the cabin looking-glass. It was a
guarantee of the calm weather and of his own strength to enjoy it that
his diary recorded that he and Captain Grant had played chess every
night, and that their games were becoming prolonged and scientific.

When Miss Latimer had joined in the rejoicing, when Hugh had had his
father’s letter to kiss, when the cat had had it to sniff—and had
been decided to show much more interest and emotion than when the
performance was repeated with a circular—when Lucy had written a
postcard to hurry after the letter she had just sent to her husband—an
ecstatic postcard, “Your ship letter received. Oh, so happy—so thankful
to God!”—when all these things were done, then she turned back to her
household cares and burdens, strong enough to bear the heaviest.

By this time Miss Latimer had taken her departure, and Lucy and her
little laddie were alone. There was something for her to do from
morning till night. She would not even call in the service of the
charwoman, for she remembered that its results had not been too
satisfactory even upon the perfect order and straightforwardness that
Pollie had left behind her. Mrs. Challoner soon found that Jessie
Morison’s month of service had not been quite so satisfactory as it had
seemed. Little things had gone astray, little household matters, for
which she had given Jessie money, were left unpaid—the whole amount
perhaps not rising above three or four shillings. Still, all this
determined Lucy to keep her own hand on the household helm for the
moment. She could postpone the duties of wardrobe and store closets
which she had assigned to herself for this last week of leisure. She
would be general servant, nurse, and housemistress for once before she
turned breadwinner!

The weather was cold, but it was bright and cheerful, and Lucy got real
enjoyment out of her mornings in the genial warmth of the kitchen, with
Hugh eagerly watching and proudly helping in those homely labours which
delight all children. Do the banquets of after-life ever furnish such
delicious dainties as that scrap of paste, extra from the pie-crust,
which mother or elder sister sweetens, and rolls out, and cuts patterns
upon, and pops into the oven, all before one’s eyes, and which we wait
to see taken out crisp and brown?

Hugh was a happy little boy in those days. Had not papa’s letter
enclosed a scrap of paper covered with o’s, and inscribed, “All for
Hughie himself,” and didn’t Hugh know that these meant kisses? Then
there was nothing to hinder him from trotting after mamma all day long,
and she often sent him upstairs or downstairs to fetch her a brush or
a duster. She even let him help her make a bed. She told him he was “a
useful little boy,” and that praise came to his ears with a pleasing
novelty, which “a sweet darling” or “a precious dear” had lost. She
let him watch her cleaning his little boots, she let him try to do it
himself. That effectually convinced him how naughty it is to dip one’s
foot in mud just for the fun of doing it. And while these delights went
on the mother and child talked about the time when Hugh would be a man,
perhaps a great explorer, alone in strange countries, and how well it
would be for him to know how to do things for himself.

“Or I’ll do them for you when you’re very, very, very old, mamma,” he
had said, and Lucy had been half-staggered and half-amused when he had
next asked whether it would not be fully time for him to begin next
year!

“No, I don’t think I shall want much done for me quite so soon,” she
had cheerfully replied; “but you may be able to do something for
yourself. I think boys and all men who are not very busy and tired out
with doing other things, ought to clean their own boots.”

“I think I’d like cleaning boots,” said Hugh. “If papa doesn’t come
home soon, I’ll get a box and go to the corner of the street and say,
‘A brush, sir!’ and I’ll bring you home all the pennies, and we’ll have
a lot of money, and you can tell papa he needn’t hurry, I’m taking care
of you.”

If here and there the childish prattle touched chords athrill in Lucy’s
heart, there were full amends when Hugh put his little arms about her
and whispered—

“Don’t let’s have any new servant, mamma—you be the servant yourself.”

“Ah, my pet,” she answered, “I’m afraid that’s a luxury out of my reach
just now!”

She questioned herself sometimes whether it might not have been wiser
had she never taken up her money-earning scheme, but had simply
resolved to live within narrowest limits on their savings during
Charlie’s absence? Yet the answer always came, that but for this
money-earning scheme, she would scarcely have dared to propose this
journey to Charlie, and it was still less likely that he would have
entertained the idea. All seemed turning out so happily that perhaps
such a venture might have well been made; but before ventures are made
one has to reckon with fears as well as with hopes, to provide against
mischance as well as to prepare for good fortune. Also, when Charlie
should return in restored health, however strong and cheerful he might
be, a depleted treasury would have been a drag, which might easily have
destroyed much of the benefit received.

Yet strong was her own longing for quiet home life, and keen was her
consciousness that the impending arrival of another dubious stranger
was the sole element of anxiety and difficulty following her about
among her household tasks. From these she didn’t shrink in the least,
and she felt sure custom would soon make them easy and pleasant. She
could not help feeling thankful that decision or reconsideration was
now out of her reach. Her engagement with St. George’s Institute was
made for the year, and must be honourably fulfilled.

It was tiresome to be interrupted in some kitchen or bed-chamber task
by a ring of the door-bell, and only to find some obviously unsuitable
“young person” sent from the registry office. She had to meet the
half-derisive smile with which some of them noted that “the missus”
herself had answered the door. She had to endure the contemptuousness
of their rapid survey of her working toilette—the white handkerchief
knotted about her hair, and the blue-checked apron. One or two of them
at once said candidly “that the place would not suit.” To others she
had to say the same. Yet her week of choice was rapidly passing, and
she feared she might be forced to accept Mrs. Brand’s advice and “not
be too particular about everything.”

Sometimes she wondered, after all, if she and Charlie had made a
mistake and had started too ambitiously at the very outset. Yet they
had then seemed entrenched on the safe side. Her own kin, beginning
with the Brands, had all thought the little house with the verandah
only too small for a young man of Charlie’s talents and prospects.

“You will have the trouble and expense of speedy removal,” they had
urged.

These kindred had said, too, that the furnishing was unnecessarily
simple. “That was a fault which might be gradually remedied,” Florence
Brand had remarked. “But it was well to make a dash at the beginning,
even if one economised afterwards, because in the first year of one’s
married life people noticed one’s house more and talked about it more
than they ever did afterwards.” But Charlie and Lucy had been firm,
because they were determined not to run in debt, because they wanted to
save as much as they could, to possess nothing that would be costly in
its up-keep, or likely to tempt them into expensive ways, and because
they both loved the beauty of simple form and the sweet cleanliness of
things that are easy to dust and possible to wash.

Then Florence had privately urged Lucy to start with two servants.

“Get two smart girls for low wages,” she had said, “you won’t have much
to do for a long time, except to watch that they are honest. It sounds
well to say ‘my cook’ and ‘my housemaid.’ People think of a general
servant as a mere slavey.”

But Lucy had steadily persisted in having only one, and Pollie’s
diligence and progress had rewarded her.

Now, however, Lucy asked herself whether Charlie and she had done
the very best after all. True, they had not satisfied the ideas of
the Brands and others; but ought they not to have gone still farther
in the opposite direction and contented themselves with a tiny flat
and foregone any regular servant? It was true that the plan they had
followed had been sound enough economically. The lease of the little
house in Pelham Street had been bought by Charlie’s prenuptial savings,
and the yearly expenditure had not been much larger than it must have
been in the imaginary flat, Pollie’s domestic help having given Lucy
time to do all the family needlework and to economise in those ways
which leisure makes consistent with grace and beauty. To Lucy the life
seemed to have been idyllic. But, then, at its foundation had been
Pollie. So, if Pollies were an element not to be readily reckoned upon,
life only was secure when it was planned to do without them.

(_To be continued._)




USEFUL HINTS.


GENERAL RULES FOR MAKING JAM.

1. Gather the fruit on a dry day.

2. Pick it over carefully and see that it is free of insects, and take
away any that is decayed.

3. Put the fruit in the pan and let it juice over the fire; add the
sugar, which should be warmed, by degrees.

4. Use good white sugar for preserving; the cheaper kinds do not go so
far.

5. Three-quarters of a pound of sugar is enough for any fruit unless it
is very sour, when a pound may be used.

6. Stir often and do not let the jam burn.

7. Skim well.

8. Bring to the boil after the sugar has melted, and boil until done.

9. Put a little on a plate, let it cool, and see if it will set; if so,
it has been cooked enough.

10. Let the jam cool, and pour it into jars.

11. Let it get perfectly cold, lay a round of paper that has been
dipped in brandy on the top inside the jar, and tie down larger pieces
outside. When tied down brush over the top with white of egg.


TO RENDER DOWN FAT. _Method._—Take any pieces of fat, cooked or
uncooked, cut them up and remove all skin and any pieces of meat there
may be on them, put them in a saucepan with enough water to come
halfway up the fat, put on the lid and boil for half an hour; take off
the lid and let the water boil away; when the pieces of fat are brown
and crisp, take the saucepan off the fire and let the contents cool a
little; strain off the liquid fat into an earthenware pan or tin. This
can be used again and again for deep fat frying, if strained after each
using, and will keep for a long while. It is excellent for cakes and
pastry.




STRAY LEAVES FROM ASSAM.

TWO WIVES.


“And my man?”

“Your man was shot down amongst the first who fell.”

The questioner turned away without a word, and lifting her child from
the ground, slung it in her cloth and left the bungalow.

A terrible disaster had occurred. A political officer had been attacked
and killed, and his escort cut to pieces, by the Angami Nagas. A few of
the survivors had succeeded in reaching the stockade, and one of them—a
bright young fellow who had marched out two days before, leaving behind
him a one-week’s bride—was having an ugly wound on his head dressed by
the native doctor.

A crowd of terrified women surrounded him, eager to hear his fearful
tale, and by degrees they learnt the truth—not one could hope her
husband had escaped, for he believed himself and one companion
to be the only survivors out of eighty men. It was a sad tale of
mismanagement, treachery, and bloodshed.

“We were in a trap,” the young fellow explained in broken sentences.
“They fired upon us suddenly and killed a lot before we could escape to
open ground. Kama Ram got us together at the foot of the hills, and we
fought hard until he fell.”

A fair-faced Nepalese woman covered her face with her cloth and broke
into low sobs.

“Yes,” he continued, “we fought hard; but half our men were killed,
and the Nagas were there in hundreds. If we could have kept them off
till dark we might have got away; but they surrounded us, and after
Kama Ram was shot there was no one to lead us, and we got broken up and
scattered. He told us to leave him there and fight our way back to
warn the Sahib at Kohima; but how could we leave him? We carried him
away, firing and then retreating. And so we got away, a few of us; but
Kama Ram was heavy—was he not a big man?—and he said, ‘Oh, brothers,
let me alone to die! I am dying now, and you must save your lives and
get back to Kohima and help the Sahib; they will go there. You cannot
save me. Put me where they cannot find me, as they will take my head.’
And then he died. We hid his body well, and then came on, and only two
of us are here, and the Nagas are now on their way; they wait to take
the heads. By daybreak they will come.”

The little Nepalese woman crept quietly away. Her child was sleeping
in a corner of the over-crowded room, and she sat by him with her head
turned against the wall and cried not loudly but most bitterly.

“What is the use of crying?” asked the other women in high-pitched
trembling voices. “We shall be killed too in the morning.”

“Yes,” said the wounded man, “we shall all be killed. There are
thousands of them coming on us.”

Then came the quiet question from a broad-faced rosy Naga woman—

“And my man—did you see him?”

Without the slightest sign of sympathy or feeling the curt answer came—

“Your man was shot down amongst the first that fell.”

Without a word she went away. None of the women had any sympathy to
waste upon a Naga woman, even though her husband had been a constable
and she had left her home and people to live with him. No one
attempted to detain her, or said a kind word as she passed.

Following her out, I asked her why she went away, and warned her not to
go. Her child would probably be killed by the first Angamis that she
met, because her husband was well known.

“They will not harm the child. I must go and find my husband,” she
replied, and passed on into the darkness and the rain. The chance
of finding him alive urged her to hurry on. If he had fallen in the
first attack, she knew the place, and made her way straight for it.
But perhaps he was not killed. He might have been one of those who had
rolled down the steep khud from the narrow pathway where they fell, and
she would find him wounded, but safely hidden, at the bottom of the
khud. If he was dead, she might yet be in time to save his head and
bury him, and hide him from the cruel hands of her savage countrymen.

The Nagas met her on her way and jeered at her, asking her where her
Sepoy husband was; but still they let her pass, and on she went. Who
can describe the horrors of that journey!

The darkness hid many a ghastly sight, but daybreak found her near the
scene of her disaster. Murdered men lay across her path headless, with
gaping wounds; shrieks of despair rang in her ears from many a poor
wounded wretch who had escaped in the night only to fall into the hands
of his enemies in the morning; and yells of fiendish triumph went up as
each new victim was discovered and despatched.

    ESMÉ.




ON A VERY OLD PIANO:

LATELY SEEN IN A LONDON SHOP WINDOW, AND LABELLED, “CASH PRICE, TWO
GUINEAS.”


    Poor faded, long-neglected thing,
        Not worth a glance
    From eyes disdainful as they pass,
    While you stand there, the sport, alas!
        Of circumstance.

    Too true! and yet if you could speak
        Of years gone by,
    How many happy memories
    Might whisper from your yellow keys
        With muffled sigh.

    For, as I look, the street and shop
        Both disappear—
    I see a room with cheerful light,
    A ruddy fire, and faces bright,
        And _you_ are here.

    Before you sits a little maid,
        Her dainty feet
    Scarce touch the floor. She proudly plays
    A quaint old tune of other days,
        Most strangely sweet.

    The vision fades, but once again
        My eyes can see
    A pleasant chamber, long and low,
    With antique chairs placed in a row,
        And tapestry;

    With solemn portraits on the wall,
        And goodly store
    Of silver, china, bric-a-brac,
    Carved shining tables, old and black,
        And polished floor.

    The windows open on a lawn,
        The sunset glows,
    The birds sing on in pure content,
    The air is perfumed with the scent
        Of summer rose;

    While strains of music, softly sad,
        From fingers white,
    That rise and fall in cadence clear,
    In sounds melodious to hear,
        Float through the night.

    Quick steps approach: and hushed your strains
        (The birds still sing)—
    Imprisoned is the player’s hand,
    The lovers twain beside you stand,
        And Love is King!

    So wags the world—’tis up to-day,
        To-morrow down.
    _Your_ reign is over: here you wait,
    “_Cash price, Two Guineas_” is your fate
        In London Town.




SOME HOLIDAY MUSIC.


Fine fun can be had out of two action songs by William Younge and
Lionel Elliott (J. Williams). They just suit the merry season for
youngsters of the family who must have amusing and interesting ideas
to keep themselves and others happy. One is called “Home for the
Holidays,” and the other, “Making the Pudding.”

For our tiny nursery people there is a really capital shilling book by
Florence Wickins, consisting of “Merry little tunes, including all the
original melodies to the nursery rhymes and a complete set of dance
music for little folk” (Wickins & Co.). It is in clear, big print, with
a gay cover, and there are some dear old favourites therein, such as
the undying Miss Muffet, Tom Tucker, Lucy Locket, Baby Bunting, and
other heroes and heroines of nursery lore in days of yore.

Schoolboys and schoolgirls too will join with fervour in Scott-Gatty’s
new “Country House Songs” on “Golf” and “Cricket” (Boosey), and
these will not fail to attract boys and girls of an older growth, so
admirable are they.

Some stirring ditties suitable for musical entertainments after
schoolroom teas are two rousing naval and military lays with telling
refrains, namely, “Beresford’s Boys,” by Lionel Hume (Weekes), and
“The Life of a Soldier,” by Gerald Lane (Enoch); “Two Gay Owls,” by M.
Van Lennep (Doremi), with characteristic “tu-whit to-whoos” capable of
expressive rendering, and “De Blue-Tailed Fly,” a plantation song by G.
H. Clutsam (Stanley Lucas), the buzzing chorus of which can be given
with much dramatic feeling!

Pretty little light pieces, all suitable for bright occasions,
interludes for tableaux, charades, &c., are the following: “Danse
Chic,” by Arnold Olding (Cramer); “Mountain Gnomes,” by Wilhelm
Popp (Ashdown); “La Lucette,” by Gladys Hope (Weekes); “Vous Dansez
Marquise,” by Augusta de Kabath (J. Williams); “Chanson de Louis
Seize,” by G. Bachmann (Ashdown); and a small book of “Three Dances” by
Corelli Windeatt (J. Williams).

These popular marches are desirable for the same purposes, namely,
“Santiago,” by Walter von Joel (Ashdown); “The Charge at Dargai”
(Cramer); and the “British Outpost,” by Lionel Hume (Weekes); while the
quicker polka marches of “Gringalet” and “Automobiles,” both by Ad.
Gauwin (Chappell), are spirited in music and in dashing frontispieces.
Two nice little operettas for children are “Cock Robin and Jenny Wren,”
by Florian Pascal, and “The Maid and the Blackbird,” by Ed. Solomon (J.
Williams).

James C. Beazley writes a humorous and useful little partsong entitled,
“There was a Little Man” (Doremi), who, as we know, “had a little gun,”
and this sporting episode is facetiously and effectually carried out in
the music.

Songs from Lewis Carroll’s “Sylvie and Bruno” (all in one small cover)
are most amusingly quaint. Listen to the euphony of “King Fisher’s
Song.”

    “‘Needles have eyes,’ said Lady Bird—
      Sing Cats, sing Corks, sing Cowslip Tea—
    ‘And they are sharp—just what
      Your Majesty is not.
    So get you gone—’tis too absurd
      To come a-courting me!’”

And other lines linger in our memories like—

    “Sing Prunes, sing Prawns, sing Primrose Hill,”

and so on in the inimitable spirit of “Alice in Wonderland” again.

The “Witch o’ the Broom” Lancers and Quadrilles by Fabian Rose
(Phillips and Page) are as easy as easy to play from sight, so is “The
Farmyard” Barn-dance, with a racy title-page for small folk (Phillips
and Page), and in a loftier sphere the “Malmaison” Waltz by Caroline
Lowthian (Metzler), and “Poppyland” Waltz by Cyril Dare (Cramer).

There are four “Characteristic Dances” by H. J. Taylor (Weekes), all of
which might be prettily danced in character, the Grecian (No. 2) and
the Japanese (No. 4) especially.

Some exceedingly facile and effective violin solos are No. 1, “The
Children’s Home” of Cowen’s, and No. 10, Canzonetta by C. Borelli, of
Morley’s Melodious Gems; “Sunny Memories” and “Good Wishes,” by Henry
Tolhurst (Phillips and Page); a “Song Without Words,” by M. Marigold
(Novello), and a convenient shilling book (Wickins) containing the
beautiful “Träumerei” of Schumann and other choice little pieces for
pleasurable performance. “Twelve Carols,” by M. C. Gillington and F.
Pascal, are full of interest and of beautiful and original ideas in
words and music (J. Williams).

    MARY AUGUSTA SALMOND.




[Illustration: ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS]


STUDY AND STUDIO.

KATIE ROBERTS.—No apology is necessary in sending your verses, but we
fear you would scarcely be able to write anything for publication. The
metre of your lines is incorrect; occasionally you begin a verse with a
line far too short, _e.g._, “He is, we all know it.” “The Unseen Guest”
is the better of the two poems, and we think it is natural to beguile
hours when you are not on active duty by expressing these thoughts. It
is not the substance but the form that we criticise. You should study
the laws of versification.

LISA.—We must commend to you the advice contained in the last clause of
the preceding answer. If you wish to improve in writing verse, study
the laws of metre, which you will find in any good handbook of the
English tongue. In “Wait,” the second line is two syllables too long.
“Guest” and “bless” do not rhyme.

APPLE BLOSSOM.—We have read your story, and are afraid we must
literally comply with your request to “pull it to pieces.” The central
incident is most improbable. Prosperous theatrical managers do not
steal plays by copying manuscripts left with them for perusal. As
“Claude” received his MS. again, you must see that detection was
absolutely certain, and no motive is suggested for the extraordinary
act of Sir Francis Lockhart, whom you should not call “Sir Lockhart.”
Claude acted with foolishness and ingratitude in angrily refusing the
offer of his uncle, which is so scornfully mentioned, of a “stool in
his warehouse,” and genius does not burst forth in a moment in the
construction of a successful play, nor the production of widely-read
magazine articles, by a half-educated youth. These faults in your story
proceed from ignorance of real life, but there are also very many
defects in style; tautology is frequent, and you should not write of
a “flunky,” nor of “Belgravia Square.” We hope you study the book we
recommended to you. There is no “royal road” to literary success of any
kind, even for aspirants with talent.

ARBUTUS.—We can mention in reply to your query, the Cambridge Training
College for Women Teachers (fees £60 to £70 a year for residence,
tuition, etc.), and recommend you, for particulars of teachers’
training, also to apply to the Secretary, Association for the Education
of Women, Clarendon Building, Oxford. You do not say for what sort of
teaching the training is required; but for elementary schoolmistresses
there are a great number of colleges. The Bishop Otter Memorial
College at Chichester is intended for the daughters of the clergy and
professional men: fees, £20 per annum for Queen’s scholars, £50 for
private students. In Ireland there are the Marlboro’ Street Training
College, and the Church of Ireland Training College, Dublin. Stockwell
College, Stockwell Road, London, is a fine college: fees £25 for two
years’ board and tuition. For a full list of these training colleges
for elementary schoolmistresses, and particulars of the entrance
examination, apply Education Department, London.

MOLLY.—It would certainly not be “waste of time” to take lessons in
drawing. You evidently have a love for it, and a good idea of copying.
It would always be a pleasant resource for you.

CONSTANCE.—Apply to the _Times_ Office, London, for the number
containing Rudyard Kipling’s Jubilee poem. We believe it first appeared
in _Literature_, but you will obtain information there.

MRS. E. M. L. KNIGHT.—1. We think you could not do better with your
little boy than to adopt, as far as you can, the Kindergarten system.
If you were to write to the Froebel Society, 12, Buckingham Street,
Adelphi, London, W.C., you would probably be told of some book or
books by which, as you seem a thoughtful and intelligent mother, you
could guide yourself in the work of training the child’s faculties
of observation and attention, and imparting knowledge of “natural
surroundings.” It is pleasant to see the little children at the
Kindergartens modelling in sand the promontory, island, hill, and
showing the course of a river from its spring on the mountain to the
sea. This is just one instance of the sort of occupation that teaches
and amuses them. Considering what you tell us, we think if you could
devote a part of each day to your boy, it would be far better than
sending him to the village school. As he is only 2½ years old, there is
plenty of time for school life.—2. A very useful though not new book
on children’s ailments is Dr. Pye Chavasse’s _Advice to a Mother_. The
National Health Society, 53, Berners Street, London, W., will send you
a list of medical books or pamphlets for household use.

ELIZABETH.—1. We should consider that Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, Sir
James Simpson, Sir Richard Owen, Lord Lister, Edison, Röntgen, Sir
William Huggins, Professors Dewar and Ramsay were among “the greatest
scientists of the present age.” We cannot possibly give you a full list
here.—2. Your writing is clear, but inclined to be too childish in
its thick down-strokes, and long loops to y’s and g’s. It needs more
freedom.

J. J. A.—We refer you also to Mrs. Watson’s articles on “What are the
County Councils doing for Girls?” and—if you cannot consult them—to
the Secretary of the Board of Technical Education, St. Martin’s Lane,
London. You might also write to the Secretaries of Queen’s College,
Harley Street, W., and of Holloway College, Egham, for particulars of
scholarships in connection with those institutions.

EDYTHE.—We think a very interesting way to teach young children
spelling is to give them a good box of letters (“Spelling-Game”), and
let them fill the frame with words, either from memory or from a book;
or the letters of a word may be given loose to the child, and he be
required to form the word himself. Games may easily be arranged with
the letter-box for several children. Many thanks for your enclosure.


GIRLS’ EMPLOYMENTS.

ISABEL (_Art Needlework_).—You would be very well taught in the Royal
School of Art Needlework, Exhibition Road, South Kensington; the fee
for instruction is £5. The School does not, however, guarantee to find
work for its pupils, but some of the latter earn an average income of
£1 a week. In art-needlework shops, the payment is usually much lower,
14s. or 15s. a week being not unusual. If you are fond of needlework,
could you not learn dressmaking at a technical institute, and then go
out as a visiting dressmaker? You would do better in this way than as
an embroideress, for you could earn about 2s. 6d. a day, and would
receive board during the time of your engagement.

A YOUNG CORRESPONDENT (_Helping others_).—The fact that you are very
young need not prevent you from helping other people as you wish to
do, and from making yourself useful in the world. If you can knit, you
might write to the secretary of the Mission to Deep Sea Fishermen, 181,
Queen Victoria Street, E.C., and ask whether you could knit mufflers
or mittens for the fishermen. Another kind of work in which help is
required is in embossing books in Braille type for the use of the
blind. In regard to this work, you should apply to the Hon. Secretary,
British and Foreign Blind Association, 33, Cambridge Square, W. Do not
trouble about the other matters you mention. Girls in their teens often
do not look their best, and the complexion nearly always improves in
later life. With a pleasant manner and a neat becoming style of dress,
a girl may always make an agreeable impression, whereas there are many
handsome girls who are so selfish and disagreeable that their beauty
gives no pleasure to anybody, not even to themselves.

PANSY (_Advice_).—It would be a great mistake to become a companion,
although you do say that such a career is your ambition. Companions
occupy an anomalous position; their duties are undefined, and their
services are consequently little valued. And, after middle life, the
companion usually finds herself without an engagement, and without a
profession of any kind. You say you do not wish to become a governess,
but at the same time you feel yourself competent to teach children from
seven years old to twelve. Now, under these circumstances would it not
be wise to become an elementary school teacher? Your pupils would be of
the ages mentioned, and you would have an occupation by which you could
almost certainly earn a living. Elementary teachers are now in great
demand, for this very reason, that so many girls will try to become
companions and secretaries. Had you been under eighteen, you might have
become an apprentice as a pupil-teacher in an elementary school; but as
you are eighteen already, you had better pass the Queen’s Scholarship
Examination, and then seek employment as an assistant teacher, or, much
better, enter a teachers’ training college. You could study all the
requirements more fully by obtaining through a bookseller a copy of the
New Code, issued by the Education Department. If you wanted further
advice, it is probable that some Board School or National School
mistress in your own town would give it.

SNOWBALL (_Typewriting, etc._).—A typist and shorthand writer, employed
as a clerk in a City office, usually receives a weekly salary of from
18s. to 21s. to begin with, rising at the end of a year or two (if she
is really competent) to 25s. and, after that, rising again possibly
to 30s., 35s., or any amount not exceeding £2. But many girls do
not advance beyond 25s. per week, and employment is to some extent
precarious, as so many girls can now do typing and write shorthand with
moderate skill. But we consider that a girl occupies a tolerably secure
position who can do verbatim reporting, and can be relied on to take
down all that is said at a long meeting, which, when interruption and
discussion takes place, is by no means an easy task. But as you are
quite young, write a good clear hand, which you will doubtless improve
within the next twelvemonth, and are determined to work, we should
counsel the Post Office Department of the Civil Service in your case,
especially if you pass the Cambridge Junior Examination well, for which
you are preparing yourself. You should try to get into the Service as
a girl clerk as soon as you are sixteen; that is better than waiting
till you are eighteen to enter as a woman clerk. Pay great attention
meantime to your studies in French, German, geography, arithmetic, and
handwriting. Girl clerks begin at a salary at £35, and women clerks at
£55. The latter are eligible for a pension after a certain number of
years’ service.

KALIFA (_House Decoration_).—We do not quite agree with you that there
is an increasing demand for ladies who undertake house decoration. To
succeed in the business, a girl ought to be apprenticed to a decorator
who will teach her how to draw and design furniture, and to see that
workmen carry out orders properly. To learn the business thoroughly, a
girl must either give time or pay a high premium; one of the foremost
decorators charges £100. It is not an employment for everybody; and a
good many ladies of taste have failed because they have not carried out
their work in a sufficiently responsible and business-like manner.

ESPÉRANCE (_Suggestions_).—If you shrink from nursing, it is difficult
to know what you can do in the way of philanthropic work without
possessing some private means. Perhaps through the church or chapel you
attend you could be put in the way of doing something for the poor,
such as district visiting. There are also, as you perhaps know, several
settlements in the East of London in which women work. For instance,
there is the St. Margaret’s House, Bethnal Green, a Church of England
Settlement, and there is also the Canning Town Settlement, 459, Barking
Road, Plaistow, which is unsectarian. You would probably find that
should the occasion arise for you to earn your living, the experience
gained by working in one of these settlements would help you to obtain
a position as matron of some charitable institution. There is now a
considerable demand for philanthropic workers who have been trained in
settlements.

LOIS (_Librarianship_).—We hardly think your scheme is feasible of
obtaining a librarianship in a charitable institution or in a ladies’
club. In a workmen’s reading-room and institute it is quite possible
you might obtain employment, or in a free library. The branches of
the Manchester Free Library employ women. Some post of that kind you
would probably fill well, as you have had several years’ experience
already, and have interested yourself in the work. Then there is a
large circulating library at Norwich, the property of a private firm,
where some women are engaged. Otherwise, if you wish to make a change,
you would have to seek a secretaryship, or post as book-keeper, as you
say; but this seems to us rather a pity as you have done so well as a
librarian.

INGEBORG (_Needlework_).—You had better communicate with the secretary
of the Society for the Advancement of Plain Needlework, 16, Stafford
Street, Marylebone Road, N.W., and ask what courses he would advise you
to pursue in order to obtain a teachership of needlework. Very likely
it may be thought best that you should pass the examination at the City
Guilds’ Institute, as this qualification would help you materially to
secure an appointment.


MEDICAL.

EGLANTINE.—If the teeth become loosened, and the gums show a tendency
to bleed on slight provocation, use a mouth-wash of tincture of myrrh;
add about a teaspoonful of tincture of myrrh to half a tumblerful
of water, and rinse out your mouth and wash your teeth with it. The
“tincture of myrrh and borax” of the shops is made by mixing tincture
of myrrh with glycerine of borax. Both these are pharmacopœial
preparations.

A JAPANESE GIRL.—In common parlance we use the term “fainting” to
express any condition in which a person acutely loses consciousness and
falls to the ground. The term therefore includes epilepsy, apoplexy,
sunstroke, acute syncope, and the condition which you wish to know
about, ordinary fainting fits, or semi-syncope. The fits, as everybody
knows, occur chiefly in young women and girls who are anæmic or
hysterical. They consist of a momentary weakness of the heart-beat, as
the result of which the brain is insufficiently supplied with blood,
and the person drops down “in a heap.” This sudden falling lowers the
position of the head, and so prevents the brain from becoming anæmic.
When a person faints, or feels faint, her head should be lowered; if
she is sitting in a chair, her head should be forced down to her knees;
if she is standing up, she should be placed upon her back. How often we
see kind-hearted persons carrying a fainting girl out of church, taking
care to keep her head well raised! Sal volatile, cold water and brandy
are sometimes given to fainting girls, but none of these is necessary,
and the brandy usually does harm. Though fainting looks very dangerous,
it is really very trivial. We have never seen a death during one of
these young women’s fainting fits.

LADY BABBIE.—It is related of a great physician that a girl once came
to him complaining, as you do, that she made horrible grimaces, moving
her scalp and eyebrows about in a most absurd manner, and making
herself look ridiculous. Of course he knew at once what was the matter,
and said to her, “Let me see you make these grimaces.” When she had
finished, he said to her, “What you have got the matter with you is
of no moment, but I warn you not to let anyone see you making those
grimaces, because when you do so you present a striking resemblance to
Mrs. ——” (a famous criminal of the time, then “wanted” by the police),
“and you may get run in if you don’t take care!” This so frightened
the girl that she never made grimaces again! This curious habit can be
cured, as you see. It is semi-involuntary—that is, it was originally
voluntary, but from constant repetition it has become a habit. It is
a habit from which you must break yourself. It is no good saying you
cannot—we say you can; but you must try, and at present avoid anything
which is liable to produce it. We have not asked you to do anything
impossible—“to do lessons or anything of _that_ sort”—but why do you
have such an objection “to do lessons or anything of _that_ sort?” You
will find that there are more unpleasant things in life than lessons!


MISCELLANEOUS.

REBECCA.—The invention of the gamut and the lines of the stave is
attributed to D’Arezzo, an Italian who flourished in the eleventh
century. At the Vatican, and in the King’s Library, Paris, there are
valuable copies of his famous _Micrologus_.

PERPLEXED.—We think it would be for your own happiness if you cleared
up the question, as no honest man has any right to be paying his
addresses to two women at once. If you have a mother, you had better
let her make the inquiry.

MARGUERITE.—The simnel-cakes made in Lent, at Eastertide, and
Christmas, in Shropshire and Herefordshire—more especially at
Shrewsbury—date back to great antiquity. Herrick speaks of them in
one of his epigrams, from which it appears that at Gloucester it was
the custom for young people to carry simnels to their mothers on
mid-Lent Sunday, called “Mothering Sunday.” In Mediæval Latin it is
called _siminellus_, and is derived from the Latin _simila_, or fine
flour. Like the religious signification of the hot-cross-buns, the
simnel-cakes were, in early times, marked with a figure of Christ or of
the Virgin Mary. The Pagan Saxons ate cakes in honour or commemoration
of their goddess Eastre, and, unable to prevent people from so doing
as a heathen custom, the Christian clergy had the buns marked with a
cross, to remind them of our Lord and His work of redemption.

TROUBLED ONE.—We are well acquainted with the infidel argument that
“the death of one man could not atone for, nor make restitution for,
the sins and the debts of millions of other men.” But first, Christ
was the Second Person of the Divine Trinity, and _One_ with the Father
and the Holy Ghost, and His was an infinite sacrifice for finite sin;
an infinite satisfaction for finite indebtedness. Secondly, as man’s
rebellion was against his Creator, and the unfulfilled obligations were
to Him, his Creator had an absolute right to punish, or forgive, to
claim, or to remit man’s debt _on His Own terms_. Thus, if He said, “I
will accept man’s acknowledgment of sin and indebtedness to Me, if he
offer a lamb in token thereof,” He had an indisputable right to do so;
and when He accepts a Divine, and therefore infinite sacrifice, He has
a right to do so. Who may presume to question it?

TWO CHUMS.—The phrase, “Once in a blue moon” means “very rarely,” and
the originator of the phrase exaggerated what it was designed to mean,
as it expresses not rarity only, but impossibility of occurrence, as
there is no such thing as a “blue” moon, any more than a personage
correctly designated “Blue Beard.”

CONSTANT READER appears to have overlooked many answers to her
question. Brides do not supply house-linen, nor furniture, nor any
household requisites. If her parents like to make a present of such a
nature, it is perfectly gratuitous. The bridegroom is naturally to have
a home suitable for the reception of his bride when he takes her from
her father’s house.

TOM TIT.—Certainly there are books on conchology. You have only to
inquire at a good librarian’s.

MACNALLY.—Inquire in the Will Department, Somerset House, and see those
of that date. You should give the names and probable date; 1s. is
charged for a search through each year, we believe. We have looked in
the _London Directory_ and the _Royal Red Book_, and did not see your
cousin’s address.

A. NEIGHBOUR.—To obtain any particulars respecting the writer Mary E.
Wilkins, you had better write to her publisher.

ANTIQUARY.—Of all the ancient nations of which we possess historical
records, Egypt stands first. According to Canon Rawlinson (quoted by
Dawson), history and archæological discoveries give the earliest date
as 2760 B.C.; of Babylon, as 2300 B.C.; of Phœnicia, as 1700 B.C.; of
Assyria, as 1500 B.C.; of India, as 1200 B.C., and of China, as 1154
B.C. Whether any new light has been thrown on the subject by more
recent investigations and discoveries than what we receive from Canon
Rawlinson, we are not at this moment prepared to say.

COUNTRY LASS.—Rosemary-tea is excellent for promoting the growth of the
hair. Chemists prepare it in a cleaner form than you can at home. You
cannot make your hair “wavy and glossy” unless the hair have flattened
sides to each tube (we mean if the hair be round it will not curl),
and if naturally rough, any gloss artificially produced would only be
through greasiness. Joan and Jane are feminines of the Hebrew name
John—“the gracious gift of God.”

AMATEUR STAMP COLLECTOR.—With reference to the uses made by the
authorities at the Asile des Billodes, at Le Locle, we can only repeat
what we were told by a Swiss lady, who has long maintained a girl
herself in this special institution, that “she believed the stamps were
sent to, and made into _papier maché_ at, Nüremberg”; so for whatever
other uses they are employed, or to whatever other destinations they
may be sent (perhaps exclusive of those at Le Locle, according to their
printed advertisement), it seems that a large proportion goes to that
place. We have the paper, a copy of which you are so good as to send,
and are quite ready to believe our friend was mistaken as regards the
Asile she helps to support.

       *       *       *       *       *
[Transcriber’s Note: the following changes have been made to this text.

Page 579: Effiie to Effie—“and now Effie”.

Page 580: Soâne to Saône—“A Summer Voyage on the Saône”.

Symond’s to Symonds’—“J. A Symonds’”.

Edmond to Edmondo—“Edmondo de Amicis”.

Taines’ to Taine’s—“H. Taine’s”.

Page 581: Teneriffe, and its Seven Satellites to Tenerife, and its Six
Satellites.

Vesa to Vasa—“Gustavus Vasa”.

Alex. to Alec.—“Alec. Tweedie”.

Grohmann to Grohman—“W. A. Grohman”.

Page 583: conciousness to consciousness—“self-consciousness”.

Page 586: baking powder to baking-powder—“baking-powder. Make”.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No.
1015, June 10, 1899, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GIRL'S OWN PAPER ***

***** This file should be named 60519-0.txt or 60519-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/5/1/60519/

Produced by Susan Skinner, Chris Curnow, Pamela Patten and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

